What a very surprising let down. I am a fan of DJ Muggs, and the rest of the artists on this album, but for the amount of starpower compiled onto one CD one would expect better. The very poor beat mixing and sloppy freestyling has me at a loss. With an exeption of one or maybe two songs, this CD is not worth a second look. Maybe listen to your buddies copy, to check it out, if your curious 
If you've been alive for the last 15 years or so, you would have at some point encountered MC Hammer's smash hit single U Can't Touch This. Based upon the bass guitar riff from Superfreak, the jivey little number was a massive hit worldwide, and was once voted the greatest song of the 1980's. It appears to appeal to just about everybody: no matter which audience I play it to, it seems to go down well amongst everybody.  
 
Accompanying this ditty was the album Please Hammer Don't Hurt Em, in which MC Hammer takes a stand against all the issues of the day. Basically, this is the quintessential rap album of the age. In the liner notes, as with most of the disc, he rants about racial discrimination and a mixed bag of other capitalist society flaws.  
 
Even when the album gets cheesily bad, it's still fun in a very 80's way. You will find yourself grooving to songs you know you hate, just for the retro effect.  
 
In the fun little intro Here Comes The Hammer, he raps about the album you're about to experience in what is basically the bridge to U Can't Touch This. After that track comes the slow moving romantic number Have You Seen Her?, the only one of it's type on the album.  
 
Yo!! Sweetness with a rather redundant second exclamation mark, is a very beat-heavy (hell, the whole album is beat-heavy) track with men chanting about a "sweetness" across the room.  
 
On Your Face, Dancing Machine, Pray, Crime Story and Black Is Black are exactly the same: like Janet Jackson in Rhythm Nation 1814, MC Hammer complains about all the difficulties facing modern Western society, racial discrimination in particular, to way too many beats and fairly crappy lyrics. He even contributes a series of preachy poems to the booklet about these topics.  
 
She's Soft And Wet and Work This are also the same: There's a girl. She's hot, eh? Yes, she is. She certaintly is. Let me explain why this is so.  
 
So, should you buy Please Hammer, Don't Hurt `Em? While it's one of the essential rap albums of the day, it comes across very dated and cheesy, so No. However, if you can get your hands on Please Hammer at garage sale prices, or a single of U Can't Touch This, make sure to pick it up: Can't Touch is a must-have for every music collection!  
 
- Dylan  
Remix albums are usually pointless exercises by a record company to bleed loads of money out of unsuspecting fans and into pockets of artists-and moreso, the labels themselves. Since the remix album exploded in 1989-90 with the likes of Bobby Brown, Paula Abdul and the New Kids, there haven't been many remix albums that are not average, at best.  
 
Now St. Louis rapper nelly joins the fray with his clunkily titled "The Derrty Versions: The Reinvention". This is basically a souped-up greatest hits album. While some of his hits enjoy a slight adjustment in beat, none of these songs is extraordinarily different than te original version, which is a good and a bad thing. If you're a Nelly fan, you're getting jerked out of your money to get a buncha stuff you already own. If you're like me and think the man has a couple of hot singles, it's an OK buy because it means you don't have to buy either of his middling-to-weak albums.  
 
I'll be the first to admit I'm not a Nelly hater, but he grew on me very slowly. I respect the dude because he has his own style, and he's not afraid to admit that he's not the greatest MC in the world, but he has his own little niche. Of course, his success far outweights his artistry, but how many artists can we say that of? hey, the dude wants to make you dance, he's relatively inoffensive, he doesn't traffic into the super-violent & misogynist cliches that most other popular MC's fall into. Hey, no one will ever confuse him with Rakim, but he's OK, damn it.  
 
Some of the remixes leave very little unchanged from the original version. "Country Grammar", Nelly's breakout hit, is exactly the same as the original version with one minor alteration in the chorus as well as a verse from E-40, the hip-hop king of "what the f*** is that dude saying?". "Dilemma" and "Work It" add slightly harder beats (courtesy of Jermaine Dupri and Scott Storch) respectively. JD brings up Nelly's vocal, which is almost buried into the mix on "Dilemma's" studio version, while Nelly alters his flow on "Work It", which was originally a pretty decent party anthem but now is only interesting because of Justin Timberlake's best Michael Jackson impression to date.  
 
"E.I." is remixed by crunk king David Banner, and Banner's rock-etched production is the standout on a couple of tracks here. He takes it back to the old-school Rick Rubin Casio-drumbeat and loud guitar days on this one, despite its' somewhat sexist refrain of "is that yo' a** cuz it ain't yo face" plastered throughout the song. For whatever reason, it appears twice on this set. The album's two best songs are the most chilled-out tracks here, giving Nelly more of an R&B than a hip-hop vibe. "Pimp Juice" coasts along on a jazz-kissed soul background with some sultry sax and a guest vocal by the legendary Ron Isley. "Groovin' Tonight" is all about Brian McKnight's great guest vocal. You almost forget that there's rapping on this track (not to mention a samle of the opening drumbeat of Michael Jackson's "Rock With You").  
 
However, that's about it for the good stuff here. The Neptunes severely bland "If" segues into an unnecessary remix of "Hot In Herre". Originally produced by The "tunes also, this remix is helmed by Nelly's in-house production team, and doesn't really change the song a whole lot. "Ride Wit Me" is the weirdest remix of all. How many hip-hop albums do you know that feature a shout out to my "n*gga John Mayer"? This reconstruction liberally lifts from mayer's breakout hit "No Such Thing", and while it's weird to hear Nelly twisting the melody of Mayer's hit, some experiments are best left untried. This album also loses cool points for the annoying-*ss interview skits that appear throughout the album.  
 
Altogether, this is a decidedly average effort. Neither of Nelly's two studio albums is exactly a classic, so I actually recommend this album to folks who want the hit singles without wanting to spring for "Country Grammar" and "nellyville". These songs aren't so radically changed that you'll miss the original versions-well, not most of 'em anyway. Buy this only if you own nothing else by Nelly and want his hit singles.  
 
Rating: 2 1/2 stars.  
 
Key tracks: "Pimp Juice" f/Ron Isley, "Groovin' Tonight" f/St. Lunatics & Brian McKnight, "Dilemma" f/Jermaine Dupri & Kelly Rowland  
 
For the past 2 years, the Neptunes team of Chad Hugo and Pharrell Williams have plagued the commercial music industry like cancer. Theyve produced a countless amount of hits for not only hip-hop artists, but have crossed over into R&B and pop and supplied their futurisitic beats for other artists in other genres. Both usually stand behind the boards, but Pharrell Williams has grown accustomed to singing hooks for acts such as The Clipse, Jay-Z, Snoop Dogg, and Ludacris. Pharrell Williams is talented to me and his voice is great for hip-hop / R&B, but a bit too commercial. Anyways, recently the Neptunes have released a compilation of new beats with the so-called "hottest" rappers out there, an album entitled Clones. Even though these guys are relatively good behind the boards, they dont bring anything new to the table and are extremely repetitive, not to mention their choice of rappers for this album is... in a word.. poor. The real name of this album shoud've been "The Neptunes Present... CRAP".  
 
 
Track List & Rating  
 
1. Intro (NOT RATED)  
2. Busta Rhymes - Light Your A** on Fire (1 1/2 Stars)  
3. Clipse, Pharrell, Ab-Liva - Blaze of Glory (1 Star)  
4. Ludacris & I-20 - It Wasn't Us (1 Star)  
5. Pharrell & Jay-Z - Frontin (4 Stars)  
6. Vanessa Marquez - Good Girl (1 Star)  
7. Nelly - If (1 Star)  
8. Rosco P. Coldchain, Pusha T & Boo-Bonic - Hot (2 1/2 Stars)  
9. Snoop Dogg - It Blows My Mind (2 Stars)  
10. Spymob - Half-Steering (2 Stars)  
11. High Speed - F*ckin Spend (3 1/2 Stars)  
12. N.E.R.D. & Clipse - Loser (2 Stars)  
13. Fam-Lay - Rock N' Roll (1 Star)  
14. Jadakiss & Supercat - The Don of Dons (1 1/2 Star)  
15. Clipse, Ab-Liva, Pharrell & Rosco P. Coldchain - Hot Damn (3 Stars)  
16. Noreaga & Pharrell - Put 'Em Up (0 Stars)  
17. Dirt McGirt - Pop Sh*t (4 Stars)  
18. Kelis & Nas - Popular Thug (1 Star)  
 
 
 
Admittedly, a lot of the beats on this album are well-produced, and this would be a perfectly competent album if the Neptunes did one of two things, get better lyricists or provide just instrumentals. A lot of the songs are heavy on production, featuring some unique production and great new sounds found by the Neptunes, but with poor subject matter and lyrics, which brings Clones down for people who favor lyrics over beats.  
 
A perfect example of this is Busta Rhymes second single "Light Your A** on Fire". The beat, though clubbish, features some new sounds. The bongo drums mixed with claps are in a somewhat different assortment, giving it a unique echo which ive rarely heard on a hip-hop track. However, Busta Rhymes comes off as terrible, proving to me once again that his best moments are far behind him. He spits nonsensical commercial dribble about booty-dancing and clubbish themes. I would light my a** on fire literally than listen to this... (HERE WE GO!!!!)  
 
Of course, if this is a Neptunes album, you know The Clipse is gonna pop in there more than once. Their first track is "Blaze of Glory". Plain and Simple, i just cannot stand this song. The beat is terrible, featuring a completely off-balance medley of bass, synthesizer, and trumpets which sound completely terrible. The rappers on this track are less than average, as Clipse once again tries their very best to hit us with dope rhymes, but fails miserably. Ab-Liva is a tiny bit better, with a small multi-syllable flow at times and a couple of dope punches, but nothing special. The song tries too hard to be aggressive, but it sounds terrible. Skip it...  
 
"It Wasn't Us" is a pure club piece of trash. Ludacris is usually humorous on the mic, but on this track hes missing out on his normally memorable punches. The beat is just too damn clubbish, with the Neptunes over-use of synthesizers, adding a unique whistling sound. Ill give the Neptunes credit, they can definetely be innovative and creative, but at times this leads to annoying clubbish beats, and im sure the Neptunes are capable of more, it sort of saddens me.  
 
I find it rather humorous that the first dope track on this album isn't even a hip-hop track, but an R&B track. Pharrell hits us with his solo jam and lead-single "Frontin".  
 
Pharrell has an excellent R&B singing voice, as he has the ability to raise and lower the pitch of his voice, but usually stays high. The track sounds a tiny bit too much like a Justin Timberlake song, but it still hits the spot. Pharrell's smooth R&B vocals, the dope and soothing Neptunes production, and Jay-Z's short, but on-point flow make this track an excellent one and actually one of the highlights of Clones. If the album were loaded with more songs like this, it would be a more than worthy purchase. Im usually against producers making records, but Pharrell has enough talent to make it far without selling-out. Unfortunately, by just having a look at the track list, you can tell that its too late for that.  
 
We go from good R&B to absolutely awful R&B with "Good Girl". Vanessa Marquez sings over superb Neptunes production, but her voice is just... terrible, at least on this song. The song has a more poppy feel to it, sounding like a Britney Spears song, but i personally can't stand the premise or the vocals of this song, making it somewhat unlistenable. Even though the beat isn't bad whatsoever, it might fit better for Pharrell to sing over it and not this b*tch.  
 
Everybody knows i hate Nelly, but im not biased. However, as expected "If" is terrible. The sad thing is that the beat is rather good. The Neptunes provide Nelly a very dope piano and synthesized beat, which reminds me of early Playstation music, but it sounds very good. However, Nelly's choppy flow, terribly commercialized lyrics, and lack of vocabulary kill any momentum the track could've had. Nelly raps mysogonystic commercialism with terrible rhymes and his typical sing-song bullsh*t. His lyrics bring the song all the way down to a 0 Star Rating, but the beat puts it at 1 Star.  
 
Newly signed Star Trak artist Roscoe P. Goldchain gets a joint with a few other members of the Neptunes label on "Hot". The beat is very simplistic, unique, and seemingly unheard of. Featuring a scratch snare, some very low chimes, and a simple drum loop with no bass, the atmosphere is seemingly non-existant and the song is low, im guessing so that the emcees could flex their vocal muscles. Admittedly, some of the lyrics on this track are indeed dope, but their refusal to remain on subject sort of pulls it down, besides the fact that their lyrics are average as expected. The main event here though is the abstract production, which is something that ive honestly never heard, making it sound as if somebody vocally scratched these noises in a cypher, which is a unique feel. I suggest checking this song out if you can just to hear the beat, or lack-there-of a beat.  
 
Commercial Sell-Out Snoop Dogg pops up here on "It Blows My Mind" as he returns to rapping about nothing, except himself. Snoop does his sort of charismatic flow which everybody knows, and his rhymes are below average, but not as terrible as i thought they would be. But its nothing special whatsoever as he once again proves why his best days are far behind him. The beat however, is extraordinarily unique, as always. The Neptunes give us a thumping echoing drum with some chimes in the background, and seemingly no bass, except for what the drum gives it. The chorus is done by Pharrell im guessing, and its sort of catchy, but probably not enough for a commercial single. Message for Snoop: RETIRE!!!!! RETIRE!!!!! RETIRE NOW!!!!!  
 
Spymob is... rock. I heard that the Neptunes signed a rock group onto their label, but i had no clue it was on here. Well, to me "Half-Steering" is typical punk-sounding with rock lyrics. The guitar rift is alright, but nothing special. Im not a big fan of punk music, but i do know good music when i hear it, and this is not good music to me. Even though one riveting part on the song with the violins is dope, the rest of it is sort of mediocre to me. If you bought this album for the hip-hop, the skip this, along with the High Speed track "F*ckin Spend". In my opinion, the High Speed track is a lot better, with a louder vocalist and a pounding guitar rift. This is good rock music, but nothing extraordinary, and a bit too short. Im guessing that the Neptunes wanted to give previews of their new rock acts coming out on Star Trak. Well there ya go.  
 
N.E.R.D. return on "Loser". N.E.R.D. team up with Clipse for a very pseudo-rock sounding track, which sounds like a freakin punk song at the start, with a guitar rift, melodic vocals, and seemingly a steel drum. After listening to the track we get to The Clipse flow, which is actually not too bad and they manage to fit within the music in the background. This track is more of a rock-rap mixture, and not just hip-hop music. Ill give the Neptunes credit, they are great at experimenting with new styles and blending styles and being creative, but they need to knock out the commercial crap.  
 
I suggest skipping "Rock n Roll". Even though the beat is worth listening to, the rapper Fam-Lay is the worst emcee ive heard thusfar on this album, yes hes worse than Nelly. Fam-Lay's lyrics are among the worst ever, as he spits uninspired, whack-a** lyrics, with a vocabulary matching that of an unborn child, and a choppy flow. Fam-Lay raps about money and drugs as every rapper does, but he sounds just terrible. This is the pure definition of commercial rap in my honest opinion, and i simply hate it. This is terrible. I'd rather watch Golf than listen to this...  
 
"The Don of the Dons" is terrible. First, we get a fake-a** Sean Paul rapping his unlistenable jamaican lyrics, and Jadakiss giving us a relatively dope performance. However, both these vocalists are brung down by bad production. There is simply too much going on in the background. The funky guitar doesn't match with the synthesizers whatsoever, and the track sounds a bit funny production-wise. Personally myself, i would not stick this into my cd player.  
 
Fans of The Clipse should recognize "Hot Damn". This track was originally on the Lord Willin' album, but this is the clean remixed version. The lyrics are altered, as well as the chorus. The beat thankfully stays the same, with that epic piano and trumpet medley which is definetely head-knodding and one of the best Neptunes beat ever. The lyrics in my opinion, are watered-down on this version, with less memorable punchlines and less witty clever flows. The Clipse stays with their slightly above average performance, but the guests get a tad bit on the annoying side. It was smart to put this track on this album, since it'll definetely help sell the album.  
 
Noreaga and Pharrell drop by to make an absolutely terrible clubbish song "Put Em Up". This could be the worst song on this entire album. The clubbish beat, overproduced bullsh*t, triple-cadence flow and female vocals make this as commercial as it can possibly get. I dont know who started that crap about Noreaga being a dope lyricist, cause he is FAR from it. Noreaga is TERRIBLE. Personally, i would rather nail my testicles to a board with a nail than listen to this.  
 
At last, after the many years of being away, Old Dirty Bastard a.k.a. Dirt McGirt is BACK. The Neptunes provide the beat for the excellent "Pop Sh*t". The Neptunes beat is a very fitting, over-the-top sounding arrangement with a crazy guitar rift and drum loop. The sound effects in the background are fitting for Dirt, as he makes his triumphant return. His lyrics are, as expected, insane! ODB is truly back, as he spits exactly the same as he did when we left off, with over-the-top lyrics, his memorable angry delivery, and a dope flow. ODB is excellent on the track as i truly feel that his lyrics have maybe even improved a tiny bit since his last outing.  
 
Engaged to be Married couple Nas and Kelis (I think they're engaged) finish off the album with the terrible "Popular Thug", which is a huge dissapointment for a Nas fan like myself. This track sounds as if it was seemingly pulled right out of Nastradamus. Nas tries be a player / thug / gangsta once again, with uninspired lyrics and terrible subject matter, which is saddening. It sort of bothers me that Nas refuses to stick to one persona, and seems to sound like he is selling out once again. Kelis' vocals are admittedly nice, but boring at the same time. The song has a unique feel when it comes to production, as the Neptunes give us a semi-clubbish R&B beat, with guitars, synthesizers, and organ piano. However Nas (incredibly enough), has made this track unlistenable, with his terrible lyrics.  
 
The only thing Clones has going for itself is the beats. The Neptunes, though commercial, are very good producers and skilled at making unique beats with extraordinary sounds. Unfortunately for them, their choice of emcees is somewhat limited, as they seemingly choose and sign some of the worst lyricists in the game. The sad thing is, even when they bring Nas along, who is one of the greatest of all time, even he f*cks it up with his sell-out mentality. I would've preferred that this album be more of an instrumental piece than a showcase of artists. With only 2 good songs, there really isn't much hope for this album to be good, but im positive it will sell tons of records. Big D suggests you skip this one and pick up the new Cunninlynguists, Gangstarr, Canibus, or Little Brother albums. Those will definetely provide enjoyment, a LOT more than this.  
 
1 Star  
 
 
The Neptunes made the album I always wished P. Diddy would've made. Rather than being the focal point of the album, they're making the beats (most of them), producing the music, and simply adding their touches to the album. I always thought rather than rapping all over an album, Diddy would be better served simply executively producing an album of all star MC's. He seems to think that he makes all the hits, why not make an album full of them? But, he'd rather rap about J. Lo. Puffy the business man? The man. Puffy the rapper? Wack.  
 
This album has nothing to do with Diddy, but the Neptunes, Pharrell Williams and Chad Hugo have made a smart move here. Since they make music for everyone anyway, rather than putting those songs on other people's albums, put them all on one album, on Star Trak (their label), and reap the benefits.  
 
The two singles that were released received a ton of radio airplay. Frontin' by Pharrell and featuring Jay-Z is everywhere. You turn on the radio, Pharrell shrieks. You watch MTV, Pharrell is crooning. Go to a music related website, they're talking about how the song is on top of the charts. All this song does is give Pharrell the power to release a solo album. I've talked to a few people and most of them like this song. I will listen to it if it's on, but in my opinion, he sounds like he's playing singer. He sounds like an excellent karaoke singer. The song does have it's quality production and Jay-Z lends his stamp to it as well. The second single is Light Your Ass On Fire by Busta Rhymes. When I heard the title of the song, I didn't know that they were singing about literally lighting someone's rear end on fire. Actually, the song is more about Busta's fascination of watching a female shake her huge rear end. It's no where near as clever as Sir Mix-a-lot's Baby Got Back. Pitiful song for someone like Rhymes who is an energetic force and lately had picked up his word play, but this is just bad.  
 
Of course, this CD is also an attempt to showcase some of their own talent. The Clipse are featured on two songs. Blaze of Glory is a decent track. It's one of those tracks I mentioned in the title that I'd love to have the instrumental rather than the actual song, but if you dig the Clipse, it's ok. Hot Damn which is nice, but again I'd love listening to the instrumentals. The beats are so intuitive and while it is all similar lending one to believe the Neptunes are stuck in their own formula, it still has charm. I'm not sure what to make of Roscoe P. Coldchain, other than the fact that I think his rap name is hilarious. On Hot he sounds very monotone. Musically, the beat is very plain, giving Coldchain a chance to show off his skills. But I didn't hear much out of his mouth that made me think he's going to be anything special.  
 
The Neptunes did get some big stars as well. Other than Busta Bus and Jay-Z, they also got Nelly, Ludacris, N.O.R.E., Snoop, Old Dirty Bastard, and the duo of Nas and Kelis. For the most part, if you like Nelly and Luda, you'll like these songs. They're simply what you'd expect. Snoop comes strong with It Blows My Mind in what's simply another solid track from him after what I thought was a successful last album. Old Dirty is joined by Pharrell on Pop Sh*t, but with his new moniker, Dirt McGirt. It's a fun track with Dirty's usual crazy antics. Not to say I completely understand what Dirt is rapping about since he sounds like a child learning to speak with new braces, but what would you expect from Dirt and the Neptunes? N.O.R.E., who scored several summers back with Superthug which was one of the songs which put the Neptunes on another level, stars on Put 'Em Up. N.O.R.E. has always been mildly entertaining but I lost respect for him when he freestyled on "The Wake Up Show" and simply couldn't finish his verse. They kept restarting him and he couldn't ride the beat at all. This track is nothing special, save for a catchy chorus, but that's about it. The most interesting track for me on the entire album is the last track, Popular Thug with Nas and his bride to be, Kelis. Nas doesn't bag in his performance and brings his A game to balance Kelis' awesome vocals.  
 
The Neptunes do supply one track for themselves in their N.E.R.D. alter ego. It an interesting track called Losers that should've been the theme song for Revenge of the Nerds. The chorus goes, "We will not be the losers, we will not leave until the job is done." Very odd track with not only the lyrical content, but also just the style. It's not what you'd expect.  
 
It was a good idea, with decent execution, but in the end, it's simply not my cup of tea. The production is flawless at times, but the way the Neptunes make beats sort of limits what MC's can do. That's why much of what they do sounds so similar.  
 
The CD did come with a DVD which included videos for Frontin', Hot Damn, and Rock N' Roll by Fam-Lay.  
 
Great Music to Play While: Experimenting with your keyboard  
After 20 million plus records sold St. Lunatic Nelly has started his own record label called Derrty Entertainment. The first artist to drop an album from Derrty is none other than fellow St. Lunatic Murphy Lee, with his debut album Murphy's Law. The "School Boy" along with the other St. Lunatics dropped the groups debut Free City back in 2001. After that album dropped Nelly fans started to really notice Murphy Lee(Which aint sayin much). After that many commercial artist also noticed Murphy Lee. He featured on The "Roc Da Mic" remix which also featured Nelly, Freeway & Beanie Sigel, and he he featured on the "Welcome to Atlanta" remix wich, Snoop, P. Diddy and Jermaine Dupri.  
 
Murphy Lee is the second St. Lunatic other than Nelly to release a solo album. Ali was the first and he record bombed worst than Baghdad. After Ali's dismal sales Murphy Lee is setting out to prove that he can sell. The first real single for this album is Wat Da Hook Gon Be. Even though Shake Ya Tailfeather is getting ridiculous radio and video play that was actually a single from that Bad Boys Soundtrack. Murphy's Law is all about having fun.  
 
1. Be Myself(Intro) - N/A - Just a sample of a woman singing I Just wanna be myself.  
 
2. Don't Blow It(feat. City Spud) - $/$ - Opens up with a City Spud phone message. Murphy Lee gives a poor intro and then you can barely hear City Spud chorus over Murphy Lee yelling. The beat is instantly a commercial sh!tter. Murphy Lee takes the first verse and spits some really weak punchlines with a sad attempt at humor. He continues using weak metafores and punchlines. In his last verse it is still pretty weak but some of his lyrics are a bit better at first then he just falls off a cliff.  
 
3. Hold Up(feat. Nelly) - $/$ - This beat is of the commercial club type. Murphy starts off and spits some real garbage. Nelly is on the chorus and it is f!ckin terrible "I dont wanna leave by myself, Boy you aint gotta leave by yourself, Sh!t...TAXI". Murphy Lee raps about him and how women can't get enough of him. "I hit em up like Blu Cantrell, He-He-He-He-He-He-He-Hell" Murphy take the mic again for another agonizing verse full of pimpin' and bullsh!t.  
 
4. Grandpa Game Tight - 0 - This sh!t is just embarassing. This clown refers to himself as Grandpa Game Tight.He talks about girls and his pimpin. He is singing on the chorus about his Grandpa Game Tight game. His lyrics on the second verse aren't too bad but the subject matter is awful, and once the chorus comes around again you will be slamming your head against the wall. In his wack a$$ last verse he talks about his different women and pimping tendencies. The chorus comes around for the last time and you will have an urge to break something after that garbage. Trust me its terrible. The beat on the other hand kind of saves this stink. It is commercial but it doesn't sound bad and the violins add nice touch. Still an egregious trac.  
 
5. Luv Me Baby(feat. Jazze Pha & Sleepy Brown) - $$$ - Murphy talks about his dream woman on this track. He raps about what he wants from that special lady on this track. Jazze Pha takes care of the chorus and Sleepy does his thing at the end of the song. This song is commercial as hell but it isn't all that bad and much better than that bullsh!t Grandpa Sh!t Raps.  
 
6. Murphy's Law(feat. Darius Bradford & St. Louis Slim) - N/A - Darius Bradford and St. Louis Slim making a speech.  
 
7. Cool Wit It(feat. St. Lunatics) - $$ - The beat on this track is pretty tight, its laid back and on the chorus a sax jumps in along with some humming from a woman. However when these guys rap they end every bar with "Cool Wit It". Now anyone who has consistantly read my review knows that I hate that unoriginal wack sh!t. No need to say much more the only thing of value is the chorus.  
 
8. This Goes Out(feat. Nelly, Roscoe, Cardin, Lil Jon & Lil Wayne) - $$$$ - This beat features some hitting bass and synthesized effects along with Nelly in the background yellin "Ooooo". Lil Jon as usual is yellin "Yeah" when the track opens. Murphy Lee spits some above average pucnhlines in his verse. Nelly has a sing along chorus. Young Roscoe grips the track and spits fire. Sure his verse is a bit commercial but he rips this sh!t crazy. Cardin spits some commercial a$$ rhymes about his pimpin and ruins it. Lil Jon comes on yelling "Okaaaaayyyyy". Everyone know Lil Jon doesn't really rhymes but all he does is yell with doubles of him yelling in the background which tends to just make noise, but here it isn't bad because his verse is only about 20 seconds long. Lil Weezy f!cking rips this up ugly. He continues the fire that was recently heard on his sqad mixtapes and I am really hyped for his next joint. Of course what song with Lil Jon doesn't end with him yelling at the end of a song.  
 
9. What Da Hook Gon Be(feat. Jermaine Dupri) - $$ - Jermaine Dupri ask what the hook gonna be and Murphy Lee answers he doesn't need a hook...But that IS the hook. Well Murphy spits more commercial lyrics than a TV. JD on the chorus is sh!t because he is sh!t and everything he does is sh!t and he along with Baby The Birdman are on my hip-hop sh!tlist. Not the worst song on this album but it damn sure is below average.  
 
10. So X-Treme(feat. King Jacob and Prentice Church) - 0 - This song has a very laid back beat. All three of these guys rap pimp type of lyrics. The beat is so laid back that after a few seconds all you will hear is Z's. Yes this muthaf!cka is boring. Elementary Rhymes and bored beat equal terrible song.  
 
11. How Many Kids You Got(feat. Darious Bradford & St. Louis Slim) - N/A - These two ask each other how many kids and baby momma's they have. Sh!tty skit.  
 
12. I Better Go(feat. Avery Storm) - $$$1/2 - In this song Murphy Lee speaks of a past love and how it went wrong. Murphy Lee comes correct with his lyrics but it wouldn't sound so bad if he didn't do that Nelly sing rapping and herre, thurr sh!t. Murphy Lee talks about how he caught her cheating on him. He tells how the more time they spent together the more they just made each other sick. Avery Storm does a phenomenal job on the chorus. The beat is great for this type of song.  
 
13. Red Hot Riplets(feat. St. Lunatics) - $$$ - Right off the top we get a madly commercial beat and Mr. Commercial himself Nelly opening up the track, rapping about how no one can mess with him and how he is just making sure his offspring are gonna be rich. Ali and Nellys chorus is plain sh!t. Kyjuan takes the second verse and it isn't bad at first then he starts talkin some wack sh!t about how his girl is All That and a Bag of Chips(Circa 1991). Murphy Lee once again spits some above average lyrics but his sh!tty sing rapping ruins it terribly. Ali comes up last and for some reason I am feeling his verse. He spits some commercial a$$ elementary rhymes but for some reason i am feeling it. Maybe its his flow i don't know.  
 
14. Regular Guy(feat. Seven) - $$$$1/4 - Murphy Lee starts off with rap singing and one thing that is heard off the start is his herre bullsh!t. The beat is for the clubs and is sickly commercial. Seven's chorus also is clubby and commercial as hell. However that is where the wack sh!t on this track ends. Murphy Lee does some minor sing rap but for the most part he spits flames. He gives some braggadocio and tell of how people cant mess with the Lunatics and also how he isn't going to change for anyone. He tells of how he had a number one song while still in high school. This is the best song on this album.  
"Im with five individuals/  
They say we not original/  
We all started underground like digital/  
Now the haters lookin' pitiful/  
We humble and hospitable/  
But lyrical we still sh-sh!t on you/"  
 
15. God Don't Chill(feat. King Jacob & Prentice Church) - 0 - These two clown Prentice Church and King Jacob are garbage as f!ck. The first song was only one song so I couldn't come to that conclusion. After this however I wonder why the hell Murphy Lee put these clowns on an already slacking album. This dumb a$$ song is once again about pimpin and partying. Murphy Lee spits the garbage also. The production on this track is lazy. The chorus is album stupid sing raps from Murphy Lee.  
 
16. Murphy Lee(feat. Zee) - $$ - Commercial a$$ beat. This track sees Murphy Lee kicking game to a girl at a party. Zee does a great job on the chorus for this type of song. Murphy Lee's lyrics are pretty average here and he does the err, urr crap again and he also rap sings as usual.  
 
17. Head From A Midget(feat. Darius Bradford & St. Louis Slim) - N/A - These Brothas aint funny. Period!  
 
18. Shake Ya Tailfeather(feat. Nelly & P. Diddy) - $1/2 - Since this song is so sh!tty I wont write a new review for it i'll just use the one I used for Bad Boys II Soundtrack. We got P. Diddy and Nelly on the same track wit Murphy Lee. Then again this song gets ya bouncin in the club no doubt so I guess you gotta respect it for what it is, and it is a pretty good party track. Lyrically Nelly spits his herre, thurr, abuse of the english language. The best rapper in St. Lunatics, Murphy Lee spits some mediocre sh!t but damn that "I'm not hard, I got women to handle that/They be like, he the man when I'm really a Thunder Cat" was f!ckin terrible. This cat also said "I'm Young Like Turk, I like that Cash and that Money" Then at the end his "Im starvin like Marvin Gurrl(girl)/I got 16 bars of ferre(fire)" was...whooo. As I said before this is a club hit, but as a song in general it just suck!...  
 
19. Same ol' Dirty(feat. Toya) - $$$1/2 - The beat on this song is pretty good and gives you a beat you would find in a 70's blaxploitation movie and it serves its purpose in this retrospective track. We have Murphy Lee rappin about back in the day when he was a young buck. Well at least in his first and third verses. In the second verse he ruins it spitting terrible commercial a$$ lyrics. Toya does a superb job on the chorus however helping to uplift this track. In the third verse Murphy Lee talks about the struggles he and the St. Lunatics had to deal with before Nelly blew up.  
 
Like I said earlier Murphy Lee's rapping is just like Nelly. He is all about having fun. He could care less about introspective rapping, or gangsta rapping, he wants to talks about partying, and pimpin hoes, with a few love stories thrown in. You will not find once on this track where Murphy Lee raps about killing, shooting, stabbing, or beatting the living hell out of someone. If you wanna hear that go buy DMX, he has plenty of it. For the most part Murphy Lee's guest appearances are really weak except on This Goes Out. Also some of the singles he got for the chorus's such as Toya, Zee & Avery Storm do great jobs. When Nelly and the St. Lunatics show up on a track for the most part its pretty wack. King Jacob and Prentice Church are some of the sh!ttiest rappers i've ever heard and hope I never have to hear them again. The stupid Darius Bradford and St. Louis Slim interludes aren't funny at all and are just a waste of wax. I really wouldn't recommend this to anyone but if you are a Nelly or St. Lunatics fan you will like this. Why? Because you f!cking like Nelly. Then again I wont front when I was a couple years younger I was a Nelly fan, just check my Country Grammar review. 
Let's just face the facts at hand - even if Obie Trice was a garbage rapper (and he is) - he's packed by the Superman of Hip-Hop, the seemingly invincible Eminem - able to make death threats in 16 bars, and pistol whip fools for jealousy, everything that Eminem touches really does turn gold. Taking executive producer credits on his prot g s debut album "Cheers" - Obie Trice has been literally blessed with success before he even said one whack word. From the promise that in several copies of his album are golden tickets to meet the blonde one (why not meet Obie? Oh yeah - no one cares), to the cornball lead single - the sky is the limit.  
 
The aforementioned lead single entitled "Got Some Teeth" is classic Eminem material - from its attempt at humor (it fails), to its elementary lyrics: and this is my favorite song/ to sing along/ when the deejay throws it on/ and if I leave here tonight and I fall asleep/and wake up/ hopefully she got some teeth". Right. Raise the roof yo - or, let's not and pretend we did.  
 
"Average Man" finds Obie busting more caps than the folks that don't like 50 Cent, which brings me to another important point: Hip-Hop is seeing the resurgence of thug mentality and while there are plenty of artists on higher planes, the mainstream is so convoluted with thuggery and ignorance that it's enough to break my b-boy loving heart. The bad boy persona continues with "Cheers", a mediocre track that can only be described as well - mediocre.  
 
"Don't Come Down" has an ill sample, but then Obie had to go and mess it up by rapping. The parallels to Slim Shady continue with Obie's apparent disdain for the woman who gave him life and sadness for the hardships he experience growing up as a young ghetto youth - which apparently is the only requirement for getting a record deal these days. While Eminem does get the executive producer credit - his beats are just the swap meet equivalent of Dr. Dre's harder and edgier material and so all of the tracks produced by Em sound budget. Perpetual hook singer Nate Dogg stops by to bore me with his voice on "The Set Up", where Obie rambles on about a shady woman (yawn). Dr. Dre also gets his flow on on "Sh!t Hits The Fan" - and while I like the sound of Dre's voice, his flow is just not getting it so his best bet is to stay behind the boards, Obie's on this track too - but he sucks.  
 
"We All Die One Day" finds two thugs (50 and Obie) uniting for what sounds like a cheap mix tape track. The gun talk, don't f($8k with me talk keeps on going like the energizer bunny and it wasn't original on track 1 and at 9 - it's wearing thin on my nerves. D-12 fans (all one of you) can be happy since Kon Artis guests on "Spread Yo Sh!t" whose only savior is that the beat is a head nodder.  
 
The one good track (and I use the word good loosely) on "Cheers" would be "Hands On You" and maybe it's only because Obie sounds like 50 Cent's Hip-Hop stepchild. Featuring Eminem - the song has a strong hook, average beat on this thugged-out love song of sorts.  
 
I might be alone in my beliefs - but I feel like lately Busta Rhymes has been good lately on everyone's material but his own - case in point would be "Oh!", despite the fact that the music sounds like the score from "Gremlins" - Obie and Busta sound pretty damn good on the track and it would get my pick for one of the better tracks.  
 
 
- Final Thoughts -  
 
While I respect everyone's right to try to help their friends out once they get famous, everybody can't be a star and Obie Trice is just not a star. His rhymes are average at best, his flow is monotonous and the fact that he seemingly can't stand independent of Marshall Mathers, doesn't help his cause either. So if you're thinking about getting a shiny gold ticket, don't even waste your time - its back to the drawing boards for Obie: real name, too many gimmicks.  
 
Great Music to Play While: counting the minutes to the album ends.  
David Banner has been around for a minute but has yet to score a big hit. That is until now. With his collaboration with Lil Flip burning up the radio I figured I'd give this a listen. So since my brother had already picked this up I borrowed it from him.  
 
This is Banner's second album after he scored a southern hit with Them Firewater Boyz. This second album has already sold a ton of copies and with constant rotation of the single Like a Pimp currently heating up dance floors across the south it's bound to sell even more. But does this mean the album is a hit. I don't think so but then again I'm only one person.  
 
Banner is from the state of Mississippi in case you didn't know. And even if the album title doesn't tip you off to his home state trust me he hollars it out enough on this album to drive you insane. Here is the tracklising for Mississippi,  
 
1. Intro  
2. What It Do (featuring Smoke D)  
3. Might Getcha (featuring Lil' Jon)  
4. Like A Pimp (featuring Lil Flip)  
5. Wh**remonger  
6. F*** 'Em (featuring Pastor Troy)  
7. Mississippi  
8. Cadillac on 22s  
9. Fast Life  
10. Choose Me (featuring Sky)  
11. Really Don't Wanna Go (featuring B-Flat and Marcus.)  
12. So Trill  
13. My Shawty (featuring Fiend)  
14. Phone Tap  
15. Bush  
16. Bring It On (featuring J Da Groover and Mississippi Shawty)  
17. Still Pimpin' (featuring Marcus. and Kamikaze)  
18. Outro  
 
This cd has left me with mixed feelings. On one hand there are the tracks which I know Banner put some thought into and then there's the tracks that just leave you wondering who would put out such trash. With tracks like Cadillac on 22s, Bush, and Mississippi you start to believe that there's something to this rapper from the poorest state in the Union. But then you get obvious club tracks like Really Don't Wanna Go, Like a Pimp, and Might Getcha and you start to see why Southern rap has such a bad reputation.  
 
In case you've never heard David Banner before his flow can best be described as a sort of raspy, ruff sound. His production on the other hand is loud, but at the same time very intricate.  
 
Banner incorporates live instruments on my personal favorite track Cadillac on 22s. When looking at the tracklisting for this album I singled this song out as possibly the worst track on the album. But once I heard the laid back beat and the acoustic guitar I realized I had this track all wrong. Here's a few bars from this introspective song,  
 
Lord I'm sick of jumping, Lord just please tell me something  
My folks still dumping my music, bumping but I feel nothing  
My heart is stelly pumping  
My heart is stelly breaking  
Sometimes I feel like I'm faking, man  
I'm so sick of taking  
Maybe hell ain't a place meant for us to burn  
Maybe Earth is telling just a place for us to learn  
Bout yo love, yo will and grace  
Sometimes I wish I wasn't born in the first place  
Maybe this first base, God knocked the ball up out the park  
So we can come home this world right here is feeling so dark  
Feeling so cold, Lord I'm feeling so old  
I dunno if I can take this world right here no more  
22 inch rims on the 'Lac  
I guess that was yo footprint in the sand carrying us on yo back  
 
Banner also manages to touch on keeping kids off drugs, and out of the streets on this track. While not the most intricate rhymes they are flawless when spit over this beat.  
 
Bush is a track that gets at the president and the way Mississippi is treated. Banner does not hide his displeasure for the president and his hypocritical ways over a bass beat with another acoustic guitar. Banner raps, I'm runnin' up in this sh*t like a track meet/You murdered, up in Texas where killin' is such a sin/  
The first month you in office you started killin' again.  
 
My feelings on Like a Pimp are mixed. I enjoy the beat but the subject matter is horrible. I also want to point out that I'm no fan of Lil Flip so the fact that I dislike this song should come as no surprise. But my personal feelings have in no way hampered this song's rise on the charts. This once again proves how stupid most people are. The lyrics are boring attempts at humor and braggadocio and in no way add to the albums overall value.  
 
Songs like F*** 'Em, and What it Do are detestable pieces of sediment. Please avoid these songs at all costs. The lyrics are just a mixed bag of profanities spit over average beats. DJ KLC of Beats by the Pound fame handles the production on F*** 'Em with all the skill he exuded while working for No Limit. Which in case you didn't know that was not a compliment.  
 
Overall I would have to say that if you don't really love southern rap you should probably stay away from this one. Granted a couple of the tracks are worth downloading but I wouldn't rush out to do that either.  
 
He gained about 3 inches, got a Jheri curl, got some tattoo's and dropped the Lil off of his name. He's a big boy now and his voice is starting to crack. "Hip-Hop's Top-Tot" as RollingStone proclaims is now back to release his third album. Now that he is all grown up he is writing his own rhymes. Maybe this is a positive considering JD was writing his previous stuff, but than again it could be worst. Lil Bow Wow's first albums were purely commercial, with catchy hooks and forgettable elementary lyrics. But he was a junior high kid so that is forgivable. Now however is high school time and he needs to step it up, or become an afterthought. Sure everyone loves a little kid rappin because it is just "so cute". Well with no furthur adue lets check out Unleashed  
 
1. Get it Poppin' - $/$ - We get some dog barking and then Swizz comes on the track making noise in the background and on the chorus. Lil Bow Wow should change his name to Pretty Boy Wow, and team up the P.B.T. aka Pretty Boy Thug...Then again P.B.T. would lyrically outshine him on every track. Man, Lil Bow Wow talks about the girl and booty and how aint no brother is as fly as he is. The beat that Swizz Beat drop isn't bad, but its ruined by Lil Bow Wow.  
 
2. Let's Get Down(feat. Baby) - 0 - Terrible song... I wont dare to explain. Turn on MTV, BET or the radio if you wanna hear this mess. Baby should be expelled from the rap game. He suffers from the disease of wackneitis, which is apparently contageous, and he's touched Bow Wow. Even worst the chick on the chorus doesn't even sound sexy, which what she's trying to do...What a mess...Check out more on this song here  
"I know a girl named Kiesha/  
She's no groupie/  
but far from a star, 22's made her choose me/  
Like Ooh Wee/  
Tellin all her friends in the Benz, he don't really look 16 do heeee/"  
Tragic...I feel sorry for the beat, even though it's terrible.  
 
3. Eighteen - $$ - He is talking to all the "youngn's" out here...Anyway he raps about when he talks eighteen. He wants a girl friend, some cars and everything...He then says "It's Weezy-Baby"...Im thinkin my n!gga Lil Wayne gonna jump up and rip the track, nope Bow Wow calls himself that. Last year when I turned Eighteen i had these wishes too, but I know I could write a better song than this. He then gives us some terrible news stating he's "Unfadable", so we will be bombarded with garbage from him for a long time.  
 
4. Follow Me - 0 - Another commercial beat. After listening to this track I don't respect Bow Wow as an artist anymore, therefore he is still LIL Bow Wow to me. Back to the track. He gives advice to all the youngsters out there if they wanna be like him they must have they pants hangin off the @ss, they must have the sticker show on there New Era fitted cap. You must be cocky. Its a must you rock two chains, clothes over sized and of course you gotta have the sickenin rims...I will add on another one for the youngster wanting to be like Lil Bow Wow...You absolutely MUST write wack rhymes. Anything more is unacceptable, seriously!  
 
5. My Baby(feat. Jagged Edge) - $$$ - This beat is pretty tight for the type of song this is and Lil Bow Wow jumps on the track with lyrical feces. Well it really isn't that bad, but it seems like Lil Bow Wow is kind of trying to be like Jay-Z here. From the uh-huh-uh-huh's that Jay-Z does to his overall flow. This song is about Lil Bow Wow and a girl from the time he met her and lost her and wants her back. Jagged Edge does a nice job on the chorus. At the end of the song we get a freestyle from Lil Bow Wow. Then a voice states "Thats what I'm talkin bout, thats old school", which is just blatant disrespect to any old school rapper.  
 
6. The Don, The Dutch - $$1/2 - The Neptunes drop this club banger. This beat is tight for the clubs. Lil Bow Wow spits some aight lyrics on this track. He spits braggadocio on the first verse, then he goes on to spit some cocky rhymes of him and women. He talks of a chick at one of his shows. The chorus is track, but the chick singing does a nice job.  
 
7. The Movement - $$$$$ - Hold Up!!! Do I hear a hint of introspection from Lil Bow Wow...Check that I respect him now. Bow Wow raps about being a young black child in the ghetto. He talks about how the ghetto has a terrible rap, but stuff happens due to cultural bias. He talks about how the world is placed on his/our generation. He tells about the wars. He says that the generation is in the crossfire. He tells that we never get answers when he ask question, but they only tell us to pull our pants up. The chorus is tight and sums up the situation of a teenager in the hood. I know this song isn't really a five star song...More like a 4 star song, but on this album it sticks out like a sore thumb...In a positive way.  
"I'll probably be banned/But I gotta take a stand/  
Cause you see what happen when Eminem make ya stand/  
He just buff, be cautious/  
See we all targets/  
My thoughts are sporadic/  
I feel so asthmatic/  
Outta breath, Sic it UP(?)/  
So we taking action against the democracy, full of hypocracy/  
I know its more to me than my hip-hop eyes can see/  
That's what the homies said to me"  
 
8. I Can't Lose - $$$ - This beat is commercial as hell, but its still pretty tight. Bow Wow spits some braggadocio stating that all the garbage in the rap game is gonna end. He does throw in his raps about girls loving him, but form the most part it isn't commercial bullsh!t. He shouts out Jay-Z, Ja, Nelly, Nas, Eminem & Jadakiss, but he says he is holding it down for the kids. He throws out a challege to all the young rappers stating "No Rapper in my age bracket, is makin it happen, the way that I made it happen". This whole song is pretty much a battle rhymes towards the younger rappers...Such at the horrendous Lil J.  
 
9. Hey Lil Mamma(feat. Jagged Edge) - $/$ - See My Baby...But a bit worst, he raps to a girl, sayin he wants to come over a watch a movie...sure.  
 
10. I Got Y'all - 0 - This song features Bow Wow rappin to the females again. This is another Let's Get Down. Another wack track full of Bow Wow claiming he is the best cat in the world and telling the girls that no other boys are close to his status... Not only is this track wack, but it also loses the respect I had for him. Back to Lil Bow Wow.  
 
11. I'll Move On(feat. Mario) - $$1/2 - The song features the Teen R&B sensation & Chris Rock look-alike Mario. This beat sounds strikingly similar to Bounce Wit Me. Lil Bow Wow spits some pretty introspective lyrics in his first verse about opinions on him and his life, but he is just trying to grow up. After that however, Lil Bow Wow goes back to the commercial garbage that we are accustomed to. Mario does a superb job on the chorus  
 
12. To My Mama(feat. Amerie) - $$$1/2 - Lil Bow Wow drops a nice heartfelt song about his mom. He talks about his life before he got big, and now how he is helping take care of her now. That My Mama, My Roaddogg stuff is crazy annoying however. Amerie, really shines on this track and helps it out a load.  
 
13. Im Back(Hidden Bonus Track) - $$ - This song has a west coast type of sound to it. Not quite G-Funk but tight nonetheless. Lil Bow Wow raps some purely commercial lyrics here. He raps about his fans and the sitcoms he appears on. He raps to the girl and he talks about his ride.  
"Had to retire my Mickey Mouse, had gotten to old/  
Peach Fuzz on my lip, homeboy, I'm grown"  
Come on duke, just look at the album cover...You still look like a lil boy, put that Mickey Mouse chain back on!  
 
Ok Now I know this album is for the little girlies so Bow Wow can come over and get som pus...umm, watch some movies. The Movement is the best song on this album by far and it is the only reason to have this. So instead of buying this, go and download The Movement. If in some odd way Bow Wow can comtinues to rap like he does on The Movement, he may be able to put out a tight album. I mean rapping about the young girls is gonna get old unless he wants to take the approach of R.Ke...Nope I wont say that, because I like Kels. I only recommend this to 16 year old girls who want to heard Bow Wow rap over and over again, because they think they have a chance at landing a date with him. Otherwise, steer clear of this garbage, please.  
 
Since Lil Bow Wow can rhyme, let me give it a shot.  
 
Leash him back up, and put the muzzle on his mouth/  
Because this young boy belongs in the dog house  
 
How was that y'all?  
 
Top 3 Songs:  
1.The Movement  
2.To My Mama (feat. Amerie)  
3.I Can't Lose  
 
Like This? Well You'll love this garbage:  
Lil J- Back to J  
I am not a fan of rap. I'm slowly coming around to it, but it takes a lot to impress me, in any genre of music for that matter. Needless to say, I won't be shouting praises for Bow Wow's "Unleashed" anytime soon.  
 
The first track is suprisingly good. It has a nice beat, and the lyrics are of the rap-star breed. Totally danceable, and imagineable as music at a teenaged club.  
 
The second track, Bow's first single off this album, is listenable, but nothing outstanding. The sixteen-year-old Bow Wow's music video to this song is of him taking his driver's test, which just goes to show the audience Bow is rapping to. Adults need not apply.  
 
"Eighteen," the third track is one of the most annoying songs I've heard a rapper sing in a long time. The underbeat is headache-inducing, and even though I've yet to turn eighteen, I can't relate to any of his lyrics, which leave a lot to be desired.  
 
Most of the tracks on this CD are what one would expect. It sounds slightly more mature than "Lil" Bow Wow's album (Bow has dropped the Lil in an attempt to seem more mature) but it still plays to the same, younger fan base.  
 
I understand why pre-teen girls and guys like Bow Wow. For them, he's a rapper close to their age, singing about things that they find cool.  
 
Bow's last track "To My Mama" was meant to be a rap dedicated to (obviously) his mother. It loses it's meaning, at least to me, because Bow enjoys rapping, "My Mama/My road dogg" several times.  
 
But maybe that's the new compliment in rap star language. I guess I'm just not hip, yo.  
 
Tracks: 12, plus a bonus track  
Buy For: A younger girl or boy, around ten-fourteen that likes rap.  
Play During: Your daughter's 13th birthday party.  
Price: Around thirteen dollars, depending where you buy it.  
When I first heard about Loud Rocks I was completely jacked. The idea of a CD with rappers teaming up with rock bands to do re-makes of hip hop classics just seemed like such a great idea. When Loud Rocks came out I went out and got it. The concept of this CD is great is was just poorly executed by Loud records.  
 
This CD has a great line-up. With tracks by Xzibit & Sevendust, Sugar Ray & the Alkaholics (now the Liks), Incubus and the late Big Punisher, Ozzy and the Wu Tang Clan, System of a Down and Wu Tang, and many more. The line-up is stacked, but this CD is not. The main problem that faces almost every pairing of rap artists and rock bands is that there is no chemistry between the two, and the songs seem forced. Some songs don't even sound like the two parts were even recorded together. On a few songs I doubt the rapper was even involved, it just sounds like they edited him in from past recordings. I know for a fact that Old Dirty B*stard was in jail when they made this album so they obviously just edited his part from "shame" into the System of a Down version. All the songs sound worse than the originals. The rock parts are also sloopily throw together, and don't sound like time was put into them. It just sounds like the bands adapted guitar riffs to the beat of the original hip hop beat. This whole albums is flawed, I think it was just a gimmick. I'm sure it lined the pockets of some Loud executive. They cashed in on the rap-rock trend. They sure suckered my nieve self in and got my cash.  
 
This CD isn't horrid, there are a couple tracks that stand-out. The Shootyz Groove song "Caribbean Connection" is pretty good. It's mainly because Shootyz Groove is a hip hop group with some rock influences. If one good thing came out of this album is was that I was introduced to Shootyz Groove. The have a real band backing their lyricists. Kind of like a Latin version of the Roots. The System of a Down cover of Wu Tang's "Shame" also doesn't blow, mainly because the lead singer of System of a Down can rap.  
 
On the other hand, there is a ton of pure sh*te on this album. Crazytown is so bad it hurts my ears. The Incubus cover of "Still Not a Playa" is pure bubble-gum pop. They sound like a bad cover band that should be playing children's birthday parties. A lot of these covers ruin the originals. I have no clue why Everlast needed to re-make the Mobb Deep classic "Shook Ones", he just made it sound band. The MOP song "How About Some Hardcore" was butchered by Butch Vig. I'm not sure who Butch Vig is, but their blend of rock and techno ruined "How About Some Hardcore".  
 
All of the songs on this album sound forced and will never get that rap-rock chemistry that songs like "Bring the Noise" by PE and Anthrax or even "Walk this Way" by Run DMC and Aerosmith had. None of these songs will ever be performed live by the two groups that laid them down for this album because it's all studio magic. Don't waste your money on this album. If you want good rap-rock check out Confrontation Camp. Loud Rocks is a train wreck that you should avoid at all costs.  
The Demigodz; first of all, what exactly is a Demigod? According to Webster himself, he states that a Demigod is `a person who is partly divine'. If that is really the case, then this group of 10+ MCs must be hiding their latent skills until the LP drops. Just from me perceiving through 7 tracks, I have yet to unveil any `divine' qualities from any of these musicians. Unfortunately, these MCs are too obsessed with their little punchlines and battling skills, and therefore throwing away every other component that is integral in making a good and complete album. So, unless if the producer of your group is named Stoupe, Primo, 4th Disciple, or Rza, an EP full of battle verses is what would be called skating on thin ice. The producer of Demigodz Entertainment happens to be Apathy (the guy who first appeared on that Jedi Mind Tricks album), and although his production is dogged and elaborate, it's nowhere near "Godlike".  
 
 
The two MCs that make themselves known right off the bat is Apathy and Celph Titled. Apathy is brash, candor, and just plain mean when it comes to spitting lyrics. Celph Titled has the voice of a mean cartoon character and can land more than a few clever punchlines. These two compliments each other on the first track "Science of the Bumrush", and flexes their tongue muscles by throwing up some heavy punchlines:  
 
In fact the same fist that I hit you up with  
Was found inside your b*tch's clitor*s after sucked my d*ck  
 
You're just a g*y rapper, loving what them f*gs do  
You ain't had pu*sy since pu*sy had you  
 
Get outta line and I'll draw you a chalk outline  
I heard you did a track with Puff Daddy and got outshined  
 
 
 
Esoteric actually does a favor this time by showing up on "Captivate/Deactivate". The chopped up string samples are just insane, along with a colorful hook done by using samples from Big Pun to Raekwon. I especially liked it when Apathy playfully provoked Esoteric by asking `Yo Eso, tell'em why you bringing the pain son?', then Eso responded with `it's probably getting done as we speak like Jenna Jameson.' Apathy also brought the pain himself with one of the best punchlines I have ever heard: "You think you can battle me and win? Next plan/ Cuz there's a better chance of Eminem joining X-Clan!"  
 
 
The pages in the Demigodz' rhyme book were probably invaded by the pens of Apathy and Celph Titled, leaving very little lines and spaces for the 11 other members. To experience the official Demigod sound, just skip to the final song on here as all of the MCs show up and boasts their skills. You should get a rise after hearing MC Rise as he delivered a unique verse:  
 
 
The crowd is out for ya set, they ain't respect  
They ain't happy you wrecked, they happy you left  
They mad upset, pis*ed that they for your rhyming  
They barely survived your set, families hugging and crying  
Don't come back, the rap competition's getting hurt up  
Beat within an inch of your life, then beat you one inch further  
 
 
Parental Discretion is definitely advised. The rest of what this EP had to offer wasn't very different from what I had reviewed, with the exception of "You Don't Wanna Go There", which had the best beat (Latin guitar riffs and an ill sample) on the album. My experiment with this EP wasn't very fond, believe it or not, it actually left me fazed. Sure it had a few good songs with superman Apathy behind the boards and Celph Titled slashing his tongue of steel. However they need to do A LOT more than just a few good beats and a few decent punchlines if they ever want to be the real Demigodz of the music industry. 
The year was 1996. Dr. Dre had managed to disentangle himself from the talons of Suge Knight and Death Row Records. Dre had started his own label, Aftermath, and was ready to sit back, renounce his gangsta image and watch the money roll in. While Death Row was reeling from the death of 2Pac and the disappointing sales of Snoop's Doggfather album, Dre was poised to start a new rap empire.  
 
So out he came with this Aftermath sampler compilation, and we didn't hear from him again for three years. The reason? The album more or less sucked, and Dre's midas production touch was missing on most of the four or five songs he actually had a hand in.  
 
It's a shame, too, because the one Dre track on the album, "Been There, Done That," is really good. The production is smooth and silky, with distinctive percussion and a lazy bass line, and Dre sounds more confident and comfortable than ever as he brags about his earthly possessions. ("I've got a palace in the hills overlooking the sea / It's worth eight, but I only paid 5.3.") An entire post-gangsta Dre album in this vein would have sold through the roof, but alas, he hadn't the creative energy for it.  
 
The other album highlights can be summed up in a couple paragraphs. KRS-One, Nas and B-Real of Cypress Hill perform under the name Group Therapy with "East Coast / West Coast Killas," a Dre-produced track that picks up where "Natural Born Killas" left off. The vocal trade-offs are seamless, the bass is solid and the whistling Dre synth is bad@ss as ever.  
 
Mel-Man, who co-produced Dr. Dre 2001, gets his solo track in "Sh**tin' on the World," which overcomes its rather non-descript Dre beat with humor, intentional and otherwise. (Mel's liner notes read, "I grew up with roaches y'am saying straight reppin' the projects to the fullest!")  
 
The aborted R+B girl group Hands-On turns in the piano-heavy, sultry groove "Got Me Open" with a Dre rap reminiscent of the same era's "No Diggity." And RC (the only artist on the album with two songs) turns in a decent, funky remake of David Bowie's "Fame."  
 
Otherwise, the album is indistinct, passed down to Dre production apprentices like Bud'da, Floyd Howard, Flossy P and Maurice Wilcher. There's a reason acts like Miscellaneous, King T, Nowl and Sharief never took off. As an intro record-label sampler, you have to wonder if Dre planned to produce or oversee albums from all these acts or if he was just looking to put together a half-@ssed compilation and laugh all the way to the bank while Death Row went under. Either way, it was a mistake.  
DJ Kay Slay is the king of the mixtape scene. He has won the Justo Mixtape Award for Best Mixtape DJ 4 year in a row. He has many classic mixtape series such as "The Regulator" & "Renegades". He is also the reason why DJ Clue boycotts the mixtape award because Clue b!tched about now winning the award last year and Kay Slay shut him up with an intimidating call out on one of his mixtapes(even though it seems to me he was really calling out DJ Envy, everyone wants to believe he is calling out Clue because Clue is a bigger name). This is Kay Slay's first commecial mixtape release. Even though He is considered "The StreetSweeper" The Streetsweeper DJ's consist of him, DJ Pruitt and others. Him talking over song in him husty voice can get annoying but his exclusive whether its a new song no other DJ has or an exclusive freestyle, makes up for it. Well enough on Kay Slay Lets get into the review.  
 
1. Intro (DJ Kayslay) - $/$ - This opens with a dedication to Kayslay's father. Kayslay actually raps with Aaron Hall singing in the background. DJ Kayslay sounds terrible as a rapper as he sounds as Darth Vader mixed with Ja Rule. Kayslay is a pretty bad rapper. Also This beat is lazy making this a terrible intro.  
 
2. I Never Liked Ya @ss (Scarface, Raekwon & Fat Joe) - $$1/2 - Face starts off this song spitting some pretty tight rhymes. Raekwon really dissapoints me on this song. I was expection some classic Raekwon flame and I got nothing but a crappy verse. Fat Joe comes up after Raekwon and follows suit spitting stench. The best thing about this song is that face spits first so after he is done you can go to the next track.  
 
3. The Streetsweeper (The Lox) - $$$ - Styles P opens up spitting flames. Basic SP styles talking about brutally killing people and junk but he alway does a good job of it to me. The chorus to this song is wack. Sheek is second and is just terrible. He really doesn't make sence when he raps and his metafores are crap. I think he tries to hard to fix funny with gangsta and it doesn't work at all. Jadakiss comes up last with an average verse. It isn't bad but it isn't nearly what you would expect from Kiss. The beat here is pretty mediocre but it has that D Block feel to it.  
 
4. 50 Shot Ya (50 Cent) - $$1/2 - This starts out with Kayslay talking some super hardcore crap. "I'll smack the f*ckin' sh!t out ya favorite DJ". I've never understood why Kayslay is so made all the time. Now to the song...50 Shot Ya is OOLLDD! I swear this song's been around since last summer. It also isn't the best 50 track out. In a matter of fact I think it's one of 50's worst. This beat gets annoying to me. Couldn't they have found a better 50 Song to put on here. Maybe "Dem Not Ready" by 50 & Sean Paul perhaps?  
 
5. Get Shot the F!ck Up (Mobb Deep & Prodigy) - $$$ - This beat is pretty damn tight but let it be known I hate Mobb Deep. Prodigy in particular. He was at one time hot as hell. Now he as a lazy laid back flow and I hate it. So when he opens up I get what I expect. I sloppy and bad 1st verse. The chorus isn't bad though. Big Noyd goes next and I like his verse. Right now i'd say Noyd is better then P & Hav. Hav goes after Noyd and he spits some pretty sub-par sh!t...Well It's not that bad but it's hard for me to like anything the Mobb does nowadays, but Noyd's verse combined with this beat and some ok spittage from Havoc save it from P's trash.  
 
6. Everybody Wanna Shine (Black Rob, G-Dep & Craig Mack) - $$ - So Will the real Kayslay please shut up! I am getting tired of Kayslay's hardcore blabber already. Black Rob has a crap verse, and next G-Dep has a pretty bad one also. Craig Mack comes up and really rips it though. The chorus goes with Kayslay taking sh!t as usual. I guess instead of talking crap over someone elses song they give him a chorus to run wild on.  
 
7. Too Much For Me (Nas, Baby, Foxy Brown & Amerie) - $$$1/2 - The first single for this album and if you see the video you will notice Nas isn't there. Kayslay and Nas now have beef because Nas didn't show up for the video shoot. It's a shame considering Nas has a sickening verse. I mean Nas kills this thing something ridiculous. Amerie's chorus is pretty average. Baby spits some of his better bars on this track, as Foxy spits crappage. This beat is nice andfits the song perfectly, and Nas's "Oh Yeah's" in the background are a nice touch.  
 
8. Purple Haze (Cam'Ron) - $$$ - If it isn't the beat waster himself! Along with the rest of the Diplomats I've never seen anyone in the history of the rap game just trash so many sickenin beats! This song is another example. This beat is hot as hell! Camron comes on with his lazy @ss flow and stinks it. However this beat is so hot I can still listen to this song. Even the chorus is tight.  
 
9. Freestyle (Eminem) - $$$ - Eminem starts explaining how bad of a mixtape DJ. This freestyle is over the "Love Me" beat off of 8 Mile. This isn't a traditional Slim Shady crazy/funny freestyle. Shady seem to be really p!ssed and he just talks about his involvment in the rap game from rappin to producing for people like Jay-Z & Freeway. Not bad but not what I was expection. I was expecting another "Peg Legged Greg" type of freestyle.  
 
10. The Champions (Doo Wop, Tony Touch, DJ Clue, Funk Master Flex, DJ S & S, Brucie B, Kid Capri & Ron G) - $$ - Doo Wop starts off and spits a pretty tight verse. Tony Toca is next and his bar are straight wack! DJ Kay Slay is next and he spits some angry garbage. S & S I think goes next and spits an average verse. I think Ron G is next and spits a doo doo verse. Kid Capri then comes up and spits an above average verse. Brucie B is on the chorus, and Clue & Funk Flex are in the intro. Apparently Clue & Kayslay have resolved their differences.  
 
11. 7 Deadly Sins (Vita, Angie Martinez, Duchess, Lady May, Amil, Sonya Blade & Remi Martin) - $$$$ - The beat here is tight. Listening to Vita and I beg to know why the hell Murder Inc. chose Charli Baltimore in favor of Vita? Vita really rips this joint. Amillion spits some sub-par lyrics here. Angir Martinez lays it down for the haters and it comes off pretty tight. Vita lets you know who it is on this track on the chorus. Lady May spits the best verse I've ever heard from her, not that I hear much of her. Sonya Blade also spits the best i've ever heard of her. Duchess just straight rips her part. She spits flames here. "Open my mouth/and they respect my diction/You Open ya mouth/and cats wanna let they kids in". If Duchess spits the flame then Remi lets out the inferno. Remi doesn't dissapoint as the best female rapper out there (in my opinion). This is the second best song on the album.  
 
12. New Jack City (Posta Boy, Shells, Grafh, Cassidy & Jae Hood) - $$$$1/2 - The future of the rap game at its finest. Not to mention these 5 spit the best punch line out there. Posta Boy opens up and shows when he was the first rapper from 106th & Park to be retired. He opens up and spits and above-average verse here. Next up is Shells, andhe spits flame. "Yo you boys is silly/Im next says Pac & Biggie/and I'm bout Major Figgaz like Dutch & Gillie/Catch Shells all-star weekend down in Philly/on my hip pack heat like a bowl of chilly." Grafh steps up to the plate and he also spits heat. He follows the chorus of "We Just Can't get along" with "cause a lot of y'all are fakin/1 minute later its a salama lenkum(?)/2 minutes later, its wheres my salami bacon/". The punchline king Cass is next and spits fire. This isn't nearly the best of Cassidy but its still tight nontheless. The prince of D Block Jae Hood comes up to bat and knocks out a homer, like he had a corked bat. This is the best track on this album.  
 
13. Westside Driveby (E-A-Ski, Mc Ren & Kam) - $$1/2 - I Like this G-Funk beat. Ski's verse is aight, not bad at all. Mc Ren's on the other hand isn't a favorite of mine. Kam just spits crap. I like the chorus though.  
 
14. Ima Smack this Muthaf!cka (Nore) - $/$ - What the hell is this? Dirty South Nore?!? He musta spent some time in kentucky. The chorus here is trash, the lyrics here are trash and the beat here is trash. That about sums it up.  
 
15. Angel's Voice (The Flipmode Squad) - $$$ - Bad beat. Rampage spits some really violent lyrics here, even though that doesn't make it good. Busta comes up and rips this song up. This is classic Busta right here. Rah Digga also spits a tight one here.  
 
16. I got U (Styles P & Bristal) - $$ - This is a Bristal song with an SP chorus. Styles's chorus is the only reason this song gets and extra $. Bristal spits two wack verses over a corny beat.  
 
17. Take a Look at My Life [remix] (Fat Joe, Remi Martin & A Bless) - $$$1/2 - This beat is hot as hell. Fat Joe starts off spitting his own version of Special Ed's "I Got it Made". After that he spits some tight bars then it goes into the chorus which isn't good but not bad either. Reminese comes up next and rips it as usual. This isn't her best...far from it but it's still good. A Bless comes up and even though i've never heard of him he rips it. DJ Kayslay comes up at the end ruining it screaming more i'll slap your favorite DJ trash.  
 
18. Coast to Coast gangstas (Sauce Money, Joe Budden, WC, Bun B, Killer Mike & Hak Ditty) - $$$ - Sauce Money starts off and spits a terrible verse. Next up Killer Mike. A pretty tight verse for Mike even though I am not a fan of his. Bun B is next and he does a nice job on this track. Someone comes up just naming different types of guns, then WC comes up spittin fire. Joe Budden also kills this track. Hak Ditty comes up last and spoils the track with a bad rap.  
 
19. Nino Brown (Wyclef & Hollywood) - 0.1$ - TRASH  
 
20. Put that Thing Down (8Ball & MJG) - $$$ - This beat is aight. 8Ball rips this joint up. MJG is a funny dude. He just talks stupid sh!t but it doesn't mess up the song, it fits perfectly. A pretty nice track to end the album with.  
 
I can honestly say there are only 3 tracks that I could listen to on the regular basis. They are "7 deadly Sins" "New Jack City" & "Take a Look at my Life[remix]". Kayslay should have officially released "Month of the Bad Guy pt.2" instead of this trash. That has songs I can actually listen to, such as "When You hear That" by Beanie Sigel, ODB & Peedi Crakk, "7 Deadly Sins", "Fire" by Joe Budden & Busta Rhymes, a couple Lumidee remixes, "Money Mayne" by 50 Cent & Lil Flip, "Get Familiar" by 50 Cent & XL, and "Party Ova Here" by Rah Digga & Lloyd Banks. Instead of picking up this garbage, you might as well hit a street corner up and see if someone is pushin the newest Streetsweepers mixtape instead of picking up this crappy one.  
Ok.. so lemme break it down for ya. Cash Money Millionaires came along many years ago, but weren't recognized until 1998 when they had a huge empire of hit-making south rappers with no talent, but catchy songs. The main acts in Cash Money were Juvenile, Lil Wayne, Turk, and B.G., known as the Hot Boys. However, in 2001, they all made the smartest moves in their careers, and walked out on Cash Money Records, excluding Lil Wayne, who remained. The others complained about not recieving their neccessary money from album sales, and walked out. The Cash Money empire was all but destroyed as they released mediocre record in which even commercial fans were shunning. The underground fans cheered as the downfall of one of hip hop's horrible empires was destroyed worse than Rome. These guys gave Hip Hop a bad name, and it was only a matter of time before they fell. Unfortunately, this was not the case. The CEO of the company, Brian Williams, a.k.a. Baby... the #1 Stunna, decided to become a rapper and go solo. Hed been rapping as part of the duo of the Big Tymers, but this time has decided to rest the company's fate on his shoulders, and release Birdman in 2003. The album sucks, but it sold... everybody likes it.. and i feel like quitting rap and becoming a sniper now just to end Baby's life...  
 
 
Track List & Rating  
 
1. Bird Lady Talkin' (Intro) (NOT RATED)  
2. Looks Like a Job 4... (0 Stars)  
3. Fly in Any Weather f/ Jazze Pha (0 Stars)  
4. Ms. Bird Pageant, Pt. 1 (NOT RATED)  
5. Ms. Bird f/ Mannie Fresh (0 Stars)  
6. I Got To f/ Lil Wayne (0 Stars)  
7. Never Had Nothin' (0 Stars)  
8. Baby You Can Do It f/ Toni Braxton (0 Stars)  
9. Ms. Bird Live from Superdome (NOT RATED)  
10. What Happened to That Boy f/ The Clipse & Pharrell Williams (1 Star)  
11. On the Rocks f/ Stone, 'Lac, Jazze Pha (0 Stars)  
12. How It Be f/ Jermaine Dupri, TQ (0 Stars)  
13. Heads Up f/ The D Boys (0 Stars)  
14. Hustlas, Pimps and Thugs (0 Stars)  
15. Fly Away (0 Stars)  
16. Say It Ain't So f/ Boo & Gotti, Keith Murray, Mikkey (0 Stars)  
17. Ms. Bird Pageant, Pt. 3 (NOT RATED)  
18. Do That.... f/ Mannie Fresh & P. Diddy (0 Stars)  
19. Ice Cold f/ Jazze Pha, TQ (0 Stars)  
20. Ms. Bird Pageant, Pt. 4 (NOT RATED)  
21. Ghetto Life f/ Lil' Wayne, Cam'Ron (0 Stars)  
22. Keeps Spinnin f/ Petey Pablo (0 Stars)  
 
 
The production on this album is led by two main producers: Mannie Fresh and newly signed Jazze Pha. Both individuals have something in common: they are both ridiculously out of shape, and they both have no skill. Both have the same style of production as well, typically synthesized club beats and jazzy instrumentals. Using fast cellos and guitars, mixed with thumping basslines, it sounds good, but its horribly orchestrated. At times, its so loud that its unlistenable. The other producers on here are Jermaine Dupri, P. Diddy, Timbaland, and The Neptunes, which all suck. The production isnt as annoying as the lyricism, because as most of you know, commercial rappers, specially those in Cash Money, have absolutely no talent, or taste.  
 
Baby proves time and time again that he has an extreme lack of charisma, though he tries his best, and lack of talent. Even with a plethora of guest appearances and useless skits, Baby proves that there is still no way for him to put together a solid album. He is extremely unintelligent, uncreative, cliche, and frankly, extremely BORING. I almost fell asleep listening to this album at how bad it is. Not to mention he relies on his ridiculous birdcall. It makes me laugh that he goes on TV and thinks hes cool, when hes making himself look like a complete idiot with his wobbly movements and his attempt to dance makes him look like a piece of 80 year old jello after its been hit with a fork. The dude looks 80 too, did i mention that? Musically, Birdman has NOTHING to offer whatsoever. The sad thing is, this album has NO LISTENABLE material at all. None. Zero. Zip. Nada.  
 
The lead single from this album is the supposed "catchy" club song "Do That". We hear the words "This is a Cash Money / Bad Boy... Collaboration", to me, its the equivalent of hearing This is a Saddam Hussein / Osama Bin Laden Collaboration, two completely evil entities combining to give us a complete trash of a record, which makes me want to shoot the television. Sad thing is, these guys think they are "cool", and they are making complete fools out of themselves. Im 100% sure that if they weren't rich, women wouldn't even look at them. I mean, asking my girlfriend Rocio, she even agreed 100% that those guys are hideous inside and out, and its not even about looks, they are complete a**holes due to their love of money and p*ssy, which is why only greedy sluts hang out with them... makes sense doesnt it?  
 
I was recently driving along my neighborhood when i hear a young latino boy, about 13 years old, with two of his friends, doing a very gay birdcall and yelling "What happened to dat Boy". At this point, one word instantly entered my mind: "Driveby". Of course, then i remembered that i cant go to jail again, so i proceeded driving, gritting my teeth in anger and going at about 50 in a residential area. My love for hip hop is truly strong. Of course, they were singing the ridiculously stupid "What happened to that Boy". On here, Baby brings in former-underground sell-outs The Clipse to help Baby try to rap. Baby gives us a ridiculously mediocre verse, while the Clipse raps crap also, but they admittedly have a few clever punchlines. Typical rags to riches story which is ruined by Baby's ridiculously materialistic verse. Funny that on both the singles from his videos, you see him prancing around and wiggling his hands like a little girl, in which i really think that Baby is a f*ckin f*ggot.  
 
But of course, the materialism conquers this entire album. I swear to god you hear f*ckin Baby rapping about his cars, jewelry, money, and girls over and over again sooooo much that it drives you to shoot yourself literally. Baby brags about his amazing status and i guarantee you that if he comes around to my neighborhood, i will personally kick his a**, steal all his jewelry, even his teeth, and pawn the sh*t. And yes, i promise i will.... swear on my life, hed better be armed. On tracks like "How it Be", "Baby You Can Do It", "Keeps Spinnin", "On the Rocks" and "I Got To", Baby stresses all of the material possessions he has, and yet hes still single... how about that.... news flash bro... they DO NOT Like you for you're personality and looks.... bro... its for you're money. But of course, he knows that... he KNOWS IT. I Pray to god that some day he gets poor so he can be as miserable as we poor folks are.  
 
As usual for these pop-rappers, they have to try their best to tie to the streets and be thuggish, but of course they fail miserably. On "Ghetto Life", "Never Had Nothin", and "Heads Up". With their horrible, mono-syllablistic, nonsensical trash lyricism and jazzy production, each of these songs mirror each other with horrible subject matter about killing and murder, and all that gay ridiculous crap which just happens to sell records to the idiotic public. Besides the fact that Baby has absolutely no skill as a lyricist, his delivery is always off-point and he f*cks up every single line he spits. His meaningless and uninspired attempt to be introspective sucks, as im very very sure that he manufactured his childhood just to be equal to other rappers... meaning he "sold drugs" and was a "thug", which i find hard to believe just like looking into his fat nasty face. Its easy to tell a liar sometimes, this guy would break a polygraph faster than id break his CD. To me, this is sooo unlistenable, its a miracle that it sells, and frankly IT P*SSES ME OFF!!!!! Everything on this album is horrible... terrible... unlistenable... what else can i say?  
 
The amazing thing is that there is one competent lyricist here. On "Say it aint so", Keith Murray raps. He is a good lyricist, but his appearance on this album befuddles me. Not to mention that the particular verse he spits is horribly materialistic and whack. Keith Murray is a great rapper, but he has no place on this album whatsoever... Say it aint so Keith... Say it aint so....  
 
Is this album complete trash? OH YEAH! Is it worth burning in fire? OH YEAH! Is Birdman possibly the worst individual to even come close to a mic? OH YEAH! Does this man deserve absolutely no money from us whatsoever? OH YEAH! Is this quite possibly the worst album in the history of music? OH YEAH! Is Birdman a f*ckin queer? OH YEAH! Do i wanna kick his a**? OH YEAH! Does he deserve to be stripped of his riches and live his life as a janitor? OH YEAH! Does he deserve to be spit on? OH YEAH!  
 
Nuff Said...  
 
0 Stars  
 
 
I have my own personal message towards Cash Money. Lets say you're on the internet, and you read this review, i personally challenge each and every single one of you a**holes to a battle and watch me rip you down to pieces one by one... come on... BRING IT!!!! Of course they aren't gonna respond, because as ive stated before, "The Industry Fears Big D".  
 
 
 
This is a part of Awoolcott's "I Can't Believe What People Think About This!" Write-Off.. Here is a shoutout to the other participants. Sorry for being a Day Early Bro... but i might not be online tommorow...  
"Cha Cha Slide" is the hottest group routine with hops, twists, turns and Latin Cha Cha steps at many parties and dance clubs nowadays.The inventor! is Mr.C The Slide Man (Willie Perry Jr. a.k.a Casper) who has created this dance as an aerobic workout for a fitness club. Years later a Chicago radio decided that this electric slide is what was missing from our lives and started a big promotion for it. (not to forget an instructional dance video they've started advertising for) Today little kindergarteners are dancing with their grannies to this music!  
Hard to speak of good, meaningful music here (does anybody remember "Macarena"? :), but if you just want to exercise or dance you might give it a try. There is even an instructor (I don't know if I should call him singer,DJ or performer) giving you the directions over a house beat: "Slide to the left! Now, slide to the right!"  
If you do it right it's supposed to work your whole body.  
With nine different steps and dedicated wills this won't be a problem for us!  
I can hardly recommend it for your wedding dance though! ;)  
 
Clap your hands everybody  
Slide to the left  
Take it back now yal  
One hop this time  
Right foot lets stomp  
Left foot lets stomp  
Cha Cha now yal  
To the left  
Take it back now yal  
Two hops this time  
Two on the left  
Two on the right  
Cha Cha now yal  
Slide to the right  
Slide to the left  
Take it back now yal  
One hop this time  
Right foot lets stomp  
Left foot lets stomp  
Charlie Brown  
Cha Cha now yal  
Five hops this time  
Touch your knees  
How low can you go  
Can go down low  
All the way to floor  
Can you bring it the top  
Like you never never stop  
One hop this time  
Right foot lets stomp  
Left lets stomp  
Reverse Reverse  
Reverse Reverse  
Cha Cha now y'all  
 
11 tracks featured have all derived from this 'Master' song.  
 
1. Cha-Cha Slide [Radio Edit] - Casper  
2. Cha-Cha Slide [Club] - Casper  
3. Bus Stop (Electric Slide) [Radio Edit] - Green, Charles  
4. Casper Cha-Cha Slide - Casper  
5. Step to This - Col'Ta  
6. Unworthy - Col'ta  
7. Unworthy - Col'ta  
8. Bus Stop/Electric Slide [Original] - Green, Charles  
9. DJ Eric-B Slide - Dj Eric B  
10. Step to This - Col'ta  
11. R-U-Here - Col'ta  
If you are looking for generic, rip-off rap for the holidae season then look no further than Chingy's Jackpot. Filled with senseless raps in an Steve Erkel meets Nelly cross pollinated by Snoop Dogg fashion, Chingy comes off sounding completely inane and pointless. His grating vocals are like nails on a chalkboard and even guest stars by real rappers (Snoop Dogg, Murphy Lee) don't keep this jackpot from going broke.  
 
Breakout single "Right Thurr" is supposed to be a party song for the ladies to shake their $ss to. That's all well and good until the vocals come in and ruin the beat and decent production. The remix is possibly just a little bit better with the addition of Trina. She provides some needed relief for Chingy audio assault. The follow up single "Holidae In" has a great beat and production and when Ludacris and Snoop Dogg check into the hotel I literally feel like kissing their feet in gratitude. So this song is probably the best song on the album.  
 
"Wurrs My Cash" just plain out sucks with its almost 80's production, stupid lyrics and redundant hook (I use the term hook very loosely). It's a weak attempt to have the charisma of Snoop Dogg but it comes off once again like Erkel just stepped into the hood.  
 
"Bagg Up" is almost palatable with its slight funky groove that is more fun than some of the other tracks. He actually establishes a flow that isn't hindered by cutesy word mangling. It still is pretty stagnant but at least it doesn't make me think that Chinese water torture is preferable.  
 
"One Call Away" has a promising intro with its R&B feel but once again it deteriorates into bad reception once Chingy opens his mouth. I was hopeful I would like at least one another song but I don't think that is going to happen my friends. I do have to give it props for being the only track on the album that isn't mispelled.  
 
Other tracks which could be describe in a creative variation of the last couple of descriptions include  
"He's Herre" which rips off Kelly Rowlands "Can't Nobody", "Madd @ Me" which is dedicated to the fans that bought the album, "Represent" (with co-rapper Tity-Boi. I guess mispelled we aren't supposed to know what that means)the unbelievably dingy "Juice" (which encourages the listeners to endulge in some freshly sqeezed hos, "Gettin' It" (which makes anything by Bow Wow look mature, Chingy Jackpot and finally the eloquently titled Fu*k "Dat N*gga".  
 
I could sit here and give you a track by track acount of this album and if you give me helpful's then I guess I will. But in order to write about real music I would rather just cut to the chase. If this is the jackpot then remind me to stay far away from scratch tickets and casino's. I would rather sit here and languish in poverty...a poverty of sound.  
Boston rapper Ray Benzino is one Hip-Hop's most puzzling enigmas. Not satisfied with being the co-owner of one of rap music's most read magazine The Source, Benzino has been pulling double-duty for over fifteen years as a rapper, dropping albums with his group Almighty RSO, the reinvention of that same group Made Men, and as a solo artist.  
 
What is puzzling about Benzino's catalogue is that there is nothing that justifies the long career - he's a mediocre rapper with an average crew at best. Even with all the highly accessible (and arguably highly unethical) promotion of Benzino's many projects in the various franchises of The Source, his first major hit came only last year with the popular club hit, "Bootee" off the album The Benzino Project. This year, the rapper returns to try to capitalize on his hit with his latest solo album, Redemption. Will the album redeem Benzino in the eyes of those who doubt the validity of his career to begin with? Probably not.  
 
Track Listing  
1. Stayin 4eva  
2. Call My Name feat. Jadakiss  
3. Rock The Party feat. Mario Winans  
4. Would You feat. Mario Winans & Lisa Raye  
5. Make You Wanna Holla  
6. Neva Shuvin' feat. Wyclef & M3  
7. Gangsta's Touch feat. Cadillac Tah & Black Child  
8. Redemption (Rosary) feat. Fatal Hussein & Kid Juvi  
9. X-Tra Hot feat Daz Dillinger & Jewel  
10. I Remember feat. Mario Winans  
11. Get It On  
12. 44 Cal. Killa feat. Scarface & M3  
13. Hoola Hoop  
14. Different Kind of Lady  
15. Pull Your Skirt Up  
16. Rock the Party Remix feat. Mario Winans, Lil Kim, & Petey Pablo  
 
With this album, Benzino hopes to make the transition from dropping just "street sh*t" into making club jams, evidenced by the amount of club-ready hopefuls on Redemption. He's already scored a major success with "Rock the Party," a lively track reminiscent of Busta Rhymes and Missy Elliot's wild club hoppers, showcasing syncopated jungle beats and warbling synth chords. The Young Heff remix of this is also included though it's the same musically except for guest verses by Lil Kim and Petey Pablo. Ray takes more shots at a lame club hits on the grinding "Get It On," and dancehall derivative "Hoola Hoop."  
 
Fully cognizant of the importance of appealing to the XX-chromosome demographic, Redemption has two softer compositions for the ladies. "I Remember" exudes a sentimental feel with Ray ruminating over a failed relationship. A portion of a classic Stylistics jawn loops in the background as the rapper outlines what went wrong in the affair. Conversely, "Different Kind of Lady" is Benzino's dedication to his current love, but with a twist in the lyrics that Hip-Hoppers have seen repeatedly since Common's "I Used to Love H.E.R." Though certainly not the first thespian to make an appearance on a rap CD, it's still unexpected to hear actress Lisa Raye (The Players Club, The Wood) share the mic with Ray on yet another variation on the Bonnie & Clyde love song theme, "Would You." Apparently picking up a thing or two from her time as a host on the Source: All Access television magazine, Raye sounds almost natural in the spirited duet, though the likelihood of a solo career resulting from this collabo is negligible.  
 
To be sure, there are actually a few genuinely tight tracks on Redemption. "Gangsta's Touch" shows the true potential of Benzino's Hangmen 3 production squad (Benzino, Jeff Two Times, JB) with a forceful head-nodder featuring live drums, flowing orchestral strings, and harsh funk guitars. Featured emcees Cadillac Tah and Black Child are nice with their rhymes, but Benzino comes through with some truly forgettable lyrics. Def Jam South CEO and rap legend Scarface joins Benzino and M3 for more grimy rhyming on "44 Cal Killa" but again, Ray is easily identified as the weakest link. It's a shame; any other skilled rapper would have tried to make a legitimate showing on these obvious album highlights, but the Boston rapper phones it in each time.  
 
Not remarkably, the weakest track on this disappointing effort is the manufactured diss track aimed at Eminem, called "Pull Your Skirt Up." It's still unknown why Benzino really decided contrive this battle between he and Em. He claims it's because Slim Shady is a white so-called "culture stealer" denoting his use of Hip-Hop to obtain success in mainstream audiences. However, when the purported "bible of Hip-Hop" `Zino co-owns has recently dedicated itself too flooding its pages with bling bling and half-naked chicks galore, not to mention the fact that the other co-owner is white, what weight does his argument really have? The beef most likely is nothing but a tool for Benzino to coax a few more units of Redemption off the shelves, and promote the "Hip-Hop Is Under Attack" articles in upcoming issues of The Source.  
 
And the overall wretchedness of "Pull Your Skirt Up" reflects this flimsiness of argument. The song is nothing but a poorly put together arrangement of marginally insulting couplets aimed at Slim Shady over a washed out rendition of Nas' original Jay-Z assault "Ether." Benzino attributes Mathers' success to his skin color with the line, "if you were five shades darker you'd be Canibus," but it's a point Em has already conceded numerous times as with the " if I was black, I woulda sold half" line in "White America," so it drains what little steam Benzino's diss may have had. Not satisfied to spew only at Em, the Boston rapper stings together anemic assaults on Obie Trice and D12, but wisely sidestepping 50 Cent. If this is the kind of "saving" Hip-Hop needs, then the culture truly is doomed.  
 
Redemption by Ray Benzino is nothing less than a prime example of why The Source magazine no longer is taken seriously in regards to Hip-Hop music and culture. If one of the chief figureheads at the mag seriously believes that this album passes as a credible effort, there's no way the issues could in anyway be representative of anything Hip-Hop. While many do dream of being a high profile rap star, many also dream of being a co-owner of a major rap publication. Benzino needs to learn to pour his passion and energy into the latter, because the rap thing sure ain't working.  
Reviewing a CD is going to be really difficult for me. I don't even know here to start! So, instead of categorizing like usual, I'll probably just type out paragraphs and how it is somewhat organized. =(  
 
So, wondering about the title eh? You know those songs you always hear on the radio, that sound spectacular and a couple of other songs by the same singer gets popular? I'll assume you do, and I'll also assume you go out to buy the CD expecting the same quality o f songs, only to be highly disappointed.  
 
This is the exact same case here, as it is with Confessions of Fire. IMO, Cam'Ron has become legendary to this. He has one or two amazingly popular songs, then the rest of the CD sucks.  
 
The hit song in Confessions of Fire was "Horse & Carriage" featuring Ma$e. Of course, back then there was no Napster, KaZaa or Morpheus, and that was just a few years ago. Amazing how much the internet has changed music. The hit in Come Home With Me is "Hey Ma", a mellow rap song with awesome lyrics. So, I bought the song on iTunes Music Store, and I love it. It is my second highest played song, only behind "Don't Stop Til' You Get Enough", by Michael Jackson.  
 
I bought the CD because I have always like Cam'Ron's style. After the death of Tupac and B.I.G., the sellout of P. Diddy, and the retirement of Jay Z, I crave for good ol' rap. I am talking about the Gangsta rap of the early 90's, as opposed to the crap Nelly, Eminem and 50 Cent sh!t out. I mean the crap aimed towards fourteen year olds. Back in the early 90s, if an underaged kid played rap, like "Hit Em Up", they would inadvertently pee their pants because of the feeling in the lyrics.  
 
Now that has all changed.  
 
So, aware of Cam'Ron's new CD, and impressed by his single, "Hey Ma", I bought the whole CD at iTunes Music Store for around $10.00US.  
 
Luckily I did not pay full retail price, which would have probably been $15. The CD SUCKED. Besides "Hey Ma" which I have two copies of, and "Oh Boy", the rest of the CD is poor music with just as bad lyrics. (No offense Cam'Ron, I'm still a big fan!)  
 
Cons  
This is another example of why people "share" music. You put a couple of good songs on the CD, and the rest sounds like it was there to fill the void.  
 
The lyrics suck, and the beat is in no way catchy. Try singing along to "Come Home with Me". You can't! No rhythmic style. Nothing you can feel out of the song!  
 
Out of the fifteen tracks on the CD, their are two that I play.  
 
The lyrics aren't smooth, and the beat isn't catchy. That is basically the bottom line. Not much detail can be given besides the fact that the CD sucks for those two reasons.  
 
Cam'Ron hasn't had a huge fit for a long time now. He did do a remix of "Horse & Carriage", which was okay. It seemed kind of desperate, but of course many artists do remixes. Rarely are they as good as the first. With the quality of the original song in this case, I don't think anyone expected it to be.  
 
Again, the songs sound like they were whipped together to fill up space as to make it different from a single.  
 
Pros  
 
Despite most of the downfalls, Cam'Ron is a great lyricist, especially when his songs have a great beat.  
 
Songs he has put out like "Horse & Carriage", easily puts Cam'Ron on the Top 40 Rappers of all time list.  
 
"Hey Ma", is a perfect example. With a mellow rhythm, it is perfect for night drives and stuff. Very soothing, for a rap song at least.  
 
"Hey Ma" is a perfect example of how great rap was in the 90's. For example, during the chorus they talk to each other with things like, "What's up, All right". Pure 90's.  
 
They also pass back to each other: "Got drops, got Coups, got Trucks, got juice, all right."  
 
Perfect. Absolutely perfect. You can't ask for a better song than this.  
 
Another popular song is Oh Boy, which is kind of weird but still counts as good music.  
 
Those two songs, and Cam'Ron's consistent style throughout the CD is what gives it two stars, as opposed to one. Cam'Ron has a very original and classy style that you can listen to over and over again.  
 
Conclusion  
 
Don't buy the CD, but definitely buy the song, "Hey Ma". It is well worth the 99 Cents that iTunes Music Store charges. If you don't want to download iTunes, try BuyMusic.com.  
 
"Oh Boy" isn't bad either.  
 
I really hope Cam'Ron keeps up his style and doesn't follow the "Nelly" trend. Hey, if he does, he'll always have listeners. The real rap fans will listen, and really appreciate the music. Right now, Cam'Ron IMO is one of the best living/non-retired rappers. Hopefully he keeps up the good work and style  
 
Cam'Ron's last CD was better, even though it was basically the same, "one good song" story. That one good song though, is really good.  
 
Worth ten bucks? Probably not.  
 
Worth a buck? Easily. 
I would like to start off by saying this album is straight WHACK!!!  
Why would any of you want an album where all you here is how much money  
he has?? People who rap about their personal possesions have no respect for hiphop. Hiphop is an artform which was NOT meant to be made money off of. I could care less how many damn cars or jewels he has. I'd rather listen to an album that doesn't state how much sh*t you got or an album about killing the most people or smoking te most weed. Why don't you all do yourself a favour and goto to your local underground hiphop store and purchase an album that was mad for strictly flows, strictly skillz, and strictly hiphop.  
 
peace  
 
DaBrat is a girl/lady/whatever - so why doesn't she act like it? With her brazen, rough tones and word choice, she doesn't sound very ladylike to me. Not that she tries to act like a lady...Just as most other female rappers (Missy Elliott, Eve, Amil), she doesn't seem to have much originality. Nor is there much distinction between her songs. Most all of the 17 tracks sound the same.  
 
What is wrong with rap these days?  
In general, rap has lost so much of its meaning. It used to be purely lyrical genious, but nowadays, with the progression of rap merging into some pop/rock, it has totally changed. You can now hear tunes from DMX being played on pop radio stations. You can hear ODB on pop stations. Is there anything wrong with a pop station playing it? Nope. But it affects the production and composition of rap songs.  
 
The stereotype of rap used to be that hard-core gangsta rap stuff that almost no caucasian people wanted to listen to. As the years pass, it changes, and more and more white people like rap. Why? It has altered some of its style and sound to accomodate others. No offense, but white influence on "black" music isn't good.  
 
Also, lyrical genious in rap nowadays tends to go along the lines of "f*ck you" and "suck my ____." What's happened to the awesome rhymes and, well, less profane side of rap? Society has made this every-other-word-is-f*ck music into the norm. Rarely will you listen to a rap song without the colorful language in it.  
 
Back to DABRAT...  
DaBrat seems to have been using a mini-version of Webster's when she and her co-writers wrote those songs. Not only do they recycle all the same words, the lyrics have no deep meaning. Unlike many other rap artists, she seems to just be rapping for the heck of it. It's worse than Britney Spears. DaBrat also has a voice similar to Britney's - strained, throaty, and squeaky. It is very painful to listen to, at times, and her redundancy does get on my nerves.  
 
Track 1 - Intro  
The intro is so useless because it is basically celebrating the return of DaBrat. However, I'll give her a few brownie points because of the excellent rap skills showed here. She can rap so fast and clear - a great feat of skill. The tune is very boring, but it suffices. Here and there you can pick up some lyrics, but it's hard to because of the speed they rap.  
 
Track 2 - We Ready  
I never said I was ready! :) Again, the tune isn't great. In fact, it's horrible. It sounds like something Dr. Dre would use, especially if his music were like TQ or something. This music doesn't fit the lyrics or the voice. Too soft music for too harsh a voice. There is barely a tune, actully, so I take back the part of the tune not being great. Ther are 3 notes in the tune, that's it. Not much to look forward to, if you ask me. It's a bit slow for dancing, but it's not something you would grind to, either.  
 
Track 3 - What You Like featuring Tyrese.  
This is the EXACT same tune as Montell Jordan - Get it On Tonight. Why? I dunno. But the lyrics don't fit. Also, she altered the tune so that half the accompaniment sounds are missing. She and Tyrese do a bad job handling the lyrics and the presentation of the lyrics. Their voices clash so badly - she has a high, throaty, forced voice. Tyrese has a Montell-type voice - smooth, flowing, euphonious. A good voice and bad voice don't cancel each other out - they make the situation worse. The lyrics are, again, worthless. There's no point in singing this - it tells basically the same type of story the rest of the songs do - except, story isn't the word to describe it.  
 
Track 4 - At the Club  
This isn't even a song - it's like a skit. It's also 37 seconds long. This has no point - it talks about DaBrat "blowing things out of proportion" and getting mad at this guy. It's pretty boring. They basically quibble over her tendency to be incited into anger and let her temper take over.  
 
Track 5 - F*ck You  
The tune sounds like some Jamaican tin drum tune. It also sounds a bit like the Rugrats song, for some reason. The beat isn't that great - similar to the other songs. The bass line doesn't sound complete - more like little fragments pieced together. The lyrics are a bit harsh - not that her others aren't. I just am not used to hearing the female type using such abrasive words. This is no good for dancing.  
 
Track 6 - Back Up  
A song featuring Ja Rule - I hate him too! It's basically the same note in the background being repeated over and over again. JaRule says "baby" every once in a while. DaBrat's voice still sticks out a little compared to the mellower tones of the xylophone-type instrument used in the background tune. Then, the chorus has this nasal sound that makes it altogether painful to hear. Another song that isn't decent for dancing.  
 
Track 7 - Hands in da Air  
A song with Mystikal, this is horrible. The background has trumpet tunes that sound like somehing you'd here on Hawaii or Matlock. One of the old shows. However, with the modern-type sound of her voice and lyrics, the song sounds a little strange. All in all, the lyrics aren't great, because it basically has the same theme as all the other songs - NONE.  
 
Track 8 - Runnin Out of Time  
This time, DaBrat has paired up with Kelly Price. Kelly has a nice voice, a little like Toni Braxton crossed with Whitney Houston. DaBrat sounds virtually the exact opposite. This is not that great for the song because it takes attention from areas of the song that want attention, and directs the attention to the voice. Rather than focus on appreciating the song, DaBrat seems to have decided to write crapppy lyrics again, coupled with a shallow "melody."  
 
Track 9 - That's What I'm Lookin For  
If there is one, this is the prime of the CD. This song, although quite characteristic of this crapppy DaBrat style, has a decent tune, and it is great for dancing/whatever. It has a good, steady beat that is fit for moving around. I even play basketball to this song (it is on a mix). I think that the voice and tune and lyrics come together very well, as opposed to all the other songs on this CD. It doesn't clash at all - a good sign. The cuss words are still rampant, and the rhymes a bit weak, but overall, the lyrics are a little better than in other songs.  
 
Track 10 - Breeve on Em featuring 22  
This sounds like a cross between Eminem - "My Name is" and Puff DAddy - "It's all about the Benjamins." The voice and music do blend, somewhat, but I think the song just isn't what it could be. Take 22 out, and change some lyrics, and maybe you can salvage this one.  
 
Track 11 - What's On Your Mind  
Nothing is on her mind. That's why this song is absolutely horrifying, and I am too predictable, so you probably can infer what I'll tell you.  
 
Track 12 - Leave Me Alone  
another skit! It's 15 seconds long this time. It's supposed to be a phone call that I won't bother to explain - the title pretty much sums it up.  
 
Track 13 - High Come Down  
Another 80's-sounding song. Sheesh, this is getting boring. This is no goodfor dancing because it's too slow - too fastr for grinding! haha.  
The chorus doesn't fit because the person singing it has a smooth, mellow voice, but the lyrics are so coarse you'd think DaBrat can sing them herself. The only thing is - she can't sing.  
 
Track 14 - All My B*tches  
All my b_tches say that THIS SONG STINKS. She basically yells through the beginning. Then, she has about 3 other people helping her. The beat is good, the rapping is good (speed, skill...). However, the lyrics are kind of hard to catch, and when they are heard, they aren't great. The lyrics have no real point to them. This is ok for dancing.  
 
Track 15 - Pink Limonade  
The tune is barely there - another one of those 2-note melodies. This has a dull sound, but then when you hear DaBrat's voice, it makes you want to cringe. This is ok for dancing, although I wouldn't ever get up and dance to this one.  
 
Track 16 - Bishop Don Juan  
Another phone call - totally worthless. "Bishop Don Juan" is a pimp. He's basically advertising.  
 
Track 17 - Chi Town  
This song is absolutely terrible. It sounds like what you'd get if you crossed Michael Jackson with Eve. The tune sounds so retrospective - 80's or early 90's - and the lyrics are so "today" that it sounds ridiculous. Not only that, as you can see, all her songs don't have much of a theme or point to them. They don't seem to be well thought out. It seems to me like she is merely rapping just because. No reason! This song talks about Chicago "Chi Town," the city "with the best skylines" where DaBrat grew up, etc. etc. etc. We didn't really ask to hear her life story. Not only does this song have no point, it's so worthless that all it basically talks about Chicago's people doing drugs, bad things about the city, how she fits in with the people, and encourages the drug use there. Whoop-dee-doo.  
 
Final thought - this is a waste of 14.99 at a record store.  
I bought this album when I read an artical in Rolling Stones magizine. I still think I should have waited until I found it in a store that sells used CDs. Maybe then I would have thought it was worth the money.  
 
The album was supposed to be a movement toward feminest hip-hop... it din't make it. There is one track that I really like though. It is Da Brat with Kelly Price. It is soulful and thought out. I don't like that in this album she sells her body instead of her talent.  
 
This CD is similar to Missy Elliots and Foxy Brown. There is only one real diffrence. This album isn't that good, and those other 2 are. It is WAY diffrent than her first... so don't buy this album if you want the same old same old.  
 
Buy this album new if you have money to burn, or if you want an entire collection of female hip-hop artists and this one puts you all the way there. If you are looking for a good female album, buy Missy instead.  
I first started listening to rap in the early 1990s, when members of my peer group, Kris Kross were the hottest act going. It was obvious that the 2 kids in Kris Kross had no talent whatsoever, just used as marketing objects to make rap appeal to the young crowd in America. The idea with Kris Kross was to give them a squeaky clean image, with a thugged out look and sound. Obviously when one thing real, and one thing fake collide, and you have the ultimate phasing out of this music.  
 
What does this have to do with Shyne? Absolutely nothing, that was a brief introduction to a situation that occurs in rap known as being a "studio gangsta". Studio gangstas are the lowest form of human beings in the rap game. Shyne falls into the category of studio gangsta, because he claims he was a poor kid on the streets of Brooklyn, who never sold a record in his life. Yet he has a song on his album called "That's Gangsta", quite possibly the worst rap song of all time. That's Gangsta has Shyne bsing the rap world about he is a true street thug, he's dodged the cops, and he has 100 carats in his watch. If Shyne has 100 carats in his watch, before he had a job, and he got it from street hustling, the FBI would investigate the purchase of 100 carats worth of diamonds, and Shyne would obviously be jailed for the reason that he cannot explain where his source of funds originated. Rather than go deeper into speaking of this horrible fraudulent piece of rap music, I will go on to his next song, and equally deplorable attempt to try and tell you Shyne is something he's not.  
 
Shyne first debuted on the radio with a song called Bad Boy, featuring Barrington Levy, an unknown reggae star who only existed in the underground world. Shyne too, only existed in the underground world until this album was released. His songs like Guch, Prad, on the horrible Cutmaster C underground release brought me to believe that Shyne had no future, and my instincts were correct. Bad Boy is nothing more than a sappy attempt to convince the American hip hop listening audience that Shyne is more than just a rapper, he had to earn his keep on the streets, and he is still doing so. Don't fall for it, Shyne is nothing more than a really bad actor, and a pathetic attempt to match the superior lyrical stylings, of one, Biggie Smalls.  
 
Perhaps what is considered one of the worst publicity stunts of all time, and the stupidest career move Shyne could make, Shyne was indicted for the infamous club shooting at a party, thrown by the head of Bad Boy Records, Puff Daddy. To pump the upcoming debut of Shyne's album, it was rumored that Shyne was the shooter in this party, the one that Puffy and Jennifer Lopez fled from to avoid possibly being shot at. Now, lets point out the obvious. Puffy who signs Shyne promises to make him millions because his record will be sent straight to the top through his promotions. Puff also takes Shyne in despite his ongoing fued with long time friend and partner Lil Kim. So, Shyne, the shooter? I think not, just a shameless attempt to push an album that has no reason to ever be shelved.  
 
Shyne is one of the great travesties of rap music. He has a horrible voice for the business, a look similar to that of Warren G, who hasn't been popular since the mid 90's, and is obviously just a cheap Biggie imitation. If it was up to me, his album wouldn't even go double wood, but it has sold somewhere in the area of almost reaching gold status, which is pretty pathetic. I think if people put blindfolds on and take the earplugs out, they will realize what type of garbage Shyne is delivering. I put that this is Great Music to Play While Getting ready to go out, because hearing this garbage makes you want to leave as fast as possible.  
 
Warning: This opinion is very graphic. It is intended for adults. Minors should not read this opinion. I have used */SYM to make some of the content "clean" but feel that I needed to include the profanity in order to illustrate what I was referring to. I hope that no one is offended by this opinion, and if they are, I sincerely apologize.  
 
Let me preface this opinion by stating I have never before had a problem with profanity in music. I have always preferred to buy the unedited versions of CDs.  
 
Having seen the video for "Get Your Roll On" on BET, I thought I'd enjoy this CD. I liked the beat and liked the lyrics.  
 
Yet, when I listened to the same song on the CD, I was shocked. It sounded like an almost completely different song.  
 
As I already stated, I've never been one to get offended by profanity in music. A lot of my favorite artists use profanity in their lyrics. However, I believe that there is a way to do it so it blends well in the music.  
 
Apparently Big Tymers are not familiar with that technique.  
 
Big Tymers sprinkle curse words in their lyrics in places where not only is it not necessary, but it detracts from the rhythm. Instead of the lyrics flowing, as with Ice Cube or Dr Dre, Big Tymers' lyrics have a stutter quality to them that makes listening to the songs unenjoyable.  
 
Here are some examples of what I am talking about. These lyrics were all taken from the song, "Get Your Roll On".  
 
"Everybody Get Your Roll On,  
Everybody Get Your Mother F**king Roll On"  
 
That is the chorus, it is said four times. The chorus is said many times throughout the song.  
 
Other lyrics are:  
 
"Slap that b**ch,  
Punch that hoe."  
 
"Big d**ks we slang,  
Freak b**ch do your thang, do your thang."  
 
"Your wife is,  
My baby momma.  
God d**n, mother f**ker,  
She's a good d**k s**ker."  
 
While some rappers incorporate profanity into their songs in a way that is seamless and doesn't stand out, the Big Tymers have not mastered the art yet. They've put profanity and insults in their music in places that would have flowed much better without them.  
 
This was proven by watching the video for "Get Your Roll On" on BET. The lyrics in the video flowed and between that and the beat, I couldn't just sit and watch. I had to get up and dance in front of the TV.  
 
The beats and rhythm on the CD are still booming, and such that you will want to dance to them and bob your head to the music. But if you're like me, you will wish there was a switch on your stereo that would allow you to cut the lyrics out and just listen to the rhythm.  
 
The feel I got from this album is that Big Tymers were trying to copy Ice Cube and Dr Dre and other Gangsta Rappers' styles, and failed miserably.  
 
If you like Gangsta and Hardcore Rap, read my review of Ice Cube's new album, "War and Peace: Vol 2 (The Peace Album)".  
 
My recommendation on this album, "I Got That Work" by Big Tymers, is either get the edited version, or just pass it up, and save the money that you worked for.  
My roommate is into the whole "jiggy" rapper routine and I am decidedly against it. He wanted me to download the new Fabolous album because it was "hot." Let me tell you, whatever "hot" is, it has to be synonymous with "crap." My tastes lie in the underground, where most true hip hop artists remain. These artists never see the success that mainstream rappers have, which can good and bad at the same time. Usually when a hip hop artist sticks to the underground, they stick with what got them into the game in the first place (usually thoughtful rhymes, but not always.) When one of these artists decides to jump the ladder into mainstream acceptance, they drop any resemblance of a hip hop artist and become whor*s of the music industry, molding themselves to what sells. I have developed a step by step theory by which hip hop artists can follow in order to change into jiggy rappers. Basically, what it takes to become a mainstream rapper nowadays is:  
 
a) Catchy, jiggy, club friendly beats (50 Cents "In Da Club" comes to mind).  
b) Generic subject matter about ho's, cash, violence, sex, and drugs.  
c) A major label able to pay off MTV and payola radio stations.  
 
That's the step by step process. You might be thinking, just three steps? Yes, my friend, that's all it takes. Of course not everyone makes it and not every mainstream rapper is like this, but typically, this outline is pretty all encompassing. Examples abound of such rappers. One such rapper is Fabolous. His album Street Dreams is an example of a mainstream creation. Remember the process, ladies and gents, you'll see it comes in very handy.  
 
Track Listing  
 
 
1. Intro - 0:17  
2. Not Give a F*** - 3:18  
3. D*** - 3:24  
4. Call Me - 3:44  
5. Can't Let You Go - feat. Mike Shorey / Lil' Mo - 3:43  
6. Bad B**** - 3:37  
7. Why Wouldn't I - feat. Paul Cain - 4:58  
8. Up on Things - feat. Snoop Dogg - 3:42  
9. Sickalicious - feat. Missy Elliott - 4:03  
10. This Is My Party - 4:32  
11. Into You - feat. Ashanti - 4:34  
12. Change You or Change Me - 4:31  
13. Respect - 4:09  
14. Forgive Me Father - 4:19  
15. Never Duplicated - 3:55  
16. - 0:05  
17. My Life - feat. Blige, Mary J. - 4:24  
18. Throw Back [*] - 3:45  
19. Keepin It Gangsta [*] - feat. Styles / Jadakiss / M.O.P. - 5:09  
20. Trade It All Pt. 2 [*] - feat. P. Diddy / Jagged Edge - 4:35  
 
On To the Review  
 
This album is very generic and reminiscent of most mainstream rap. Example: the Intro. It serves absolutely no point except to take up space (a filler track, if you will.) DJ Clue basically says how everyone wants to be like his boy Fabolous and how everyone wants his life. Already the album starts off with negative marks.  
 
The first actual song, "Not Give a F***," follows the first two letters in my step by step process to a tee. A deep, rubbery bass-line pounds away accompanied by some very basic, grating snare and bells. This satisfies (a) of my process to mainstream success. The beat is a typical club-ready creation, perfect for accompanying Fabolous' lyrics. These following lyrics exemplify part (b) of my method.  
 
I'm fly enough, to do better,  
But pimp enough to not give a f***,  
And I'm thug enough, to do better,  
And gangsta enough to not give a f***,  
I'm hustlin' enough, to know better,  
But ballin' enough to not give a f***,  
And I'm, old enough, to know better,  
But young enough to not give a f***  
 
I think the lyrics speak for themselves.  
 
Damn incorporates a female singer as the hook, a shameful mainstream tactic popularized by the wack artist know as Ja Rule. This song reminds me of the Saturday Night Live skit with Christopher Walken, where he is a producer of a band. "Guess what?" he proclaims. "I got a fever! And the only prescription... is more cowbell!" Funny stuff, but very applicable to this mainstream monstrosity of a song. Cowbells pervade throughout the song. Over and over, the same sample is used, to the point where the listener just wants to skip the song, or kill himself. The lyrics don't say anything either, which is to be expected.  
 
I can't help but think of Puff Daddy (P. Diddy) when listening to Call Me, or any song for that matter. Although Fabolous' flow is much better than P Diddy's, there is no escaping the fact that he sounds almost exactly the same, voice and tone wise. This song is about a girl that wants him to call her because they had such great sex together. Wow! How creative. NextÖ  
 
The next song Can't Let You Go uses Nelly's rhyming of "thank ya" and "gangsta."  
 
And I respect ya gangsta  
Treat you like a princess  
And put something on your neck to thank ya  
 
This fact alone automatically submits it in the "worst song of the album" category. Essentially the song is about how he has a girlfriend and how much he likes having sex with her, but can't leave his wife. This is an extremely misogynistic track that's hidden in a glossy, acoustic guitar laced beat along with Lil' Mo and Mike Shorley's strong singing.  
 
Bad B*tch also borrows rhymes from another album. This time it's from The Clipse song, Let's Talk About It. The lyrics are along the lines of having "fun" with two girls. The track, production wise, is repetitive and unintelligent. This perfectly compliments the wack lyrics.  
 
"Yeah, I'm a Ghetto Superstar ni**a  
Most ni**as trying to get one chick, right?  
I'm trying to get two  
You know, two is always better than one, right?  
Yeah..  
 
Why Wouldn't I also continues this charade of wack, pointless, misogynistic, money hungry, women objectifying tirade. This time Fab is joined by an unknown rapper, Paul Cain. Cain is even guiltier than Fabolous, since he assists Fab in continuing his moronity.  
 
I never thought I would say anything like this, but I actually like one of the songs on the album. Up On Things presents nothing new or exciting, but the piano driven, synth backed beat is very infectious. Snoop Dogg shows up for the chorus and some extremely pointless lyrics, but his presence is refreshing in a self-parody sort of way.  
 
This Is My Party just plain sucks. The beat is horrible, Fabolous' rhymes are weak, and the chorus is completely and utterly wack! Skip at all costs!  
 
Ashanti stars on Into You, an attempt of introspection that goes horribly wrong. Apparently, Fab is attempting to be real with a girl, but all he does is talk about how much money he has and how he's greater than anyone else. What is this crap?  
 
Essentially, it would be a waste of time for me to continue my review, considering the fact that the rest of the songs follow the same routine of recycled subject matter, beats, and complete lack of talent/creativity. It seems to me that this entire album is just a lame attempt at making money. Every track is below average. If Fabolous doesn't step up his game and doesn't drops the clich s, he's never going to be played in my play list, that's for sure.  
Alcatraz is well known throughout the world as the notorious San Francisco Bay prison built in the 1930s. In addition to housing such infamous figures like Al Capone and George "Machine Gun" Kelly, the house of detention is best known for being completely inescapable. Given the state of artist/label business relationships in rap music, its no wonder that Bay-area rapper Rasco found the federal lockdown facility as a perfect metaphor for rap recording contracts - big names restricted to unfair conditions with little hope of freedom.  
 
Fortunately, Rasco joins an elite minority of rappers able to escape "the Rock" with his career still intact. After tunneling his way out of an unbalanced recording deal with Copasetik Records, the Cali Agent found his way into a more equitable agreement with Coup D'Etat that allows to make the music he wants to make with less restrictions. This year, Rasco celebrates his newfound freedom by dropping his banging new LP, Escape From Alcatraz.  
 
The story of Rasco's contractual incarceration is told in "Snakes In The Grass (The Jon Sexton Story)." A combination of street narrative and slick diss track, the emcee recounts the bad situation he was in at his previous record company while sharing some choice words for his former employer. It's a topic he touches on often on the LP, but don't make the mistake of presupposing Rasco just uses Escape From Alcatraz to lash out at the industry out of self-pity; he manages to cover a variety of other relevant topics as well. On "My Life" Rasco contemplates complex issues such as morality, race, and politics over a bouncy funk-electronica loop. "U Got The Time" expresses the artist's desire for people to take control of their own destinies, rhyming with conviction over undeniable soul guitars and vocals.  
 
In fact, though the open hostilities toward his former label are liberally peppered throughout Escape From Alcatraz, Rasco's music is generally upbeat in nature. The majority tracks have an infectious jubilant feel, like Ras has just escaped from prison, made it across the border to Mexico, and is throwing one hell of a party to celebrate. The party mood is captured perfectly in "San Fran To The Town" featuring Hieroglyphic Casual tearing up the rich, warm guitar grooves with his cleverly slumpy vocals. "Put Your Hands Up" and "Real Hot" also exemplify the festive vibe with the former a triumphant return to the game over summer anthem-style accompaniment, while "Real Hot" features an innovative modification of the classic soul sample that Eric B and Rakim made legend with "Microphone Fiend."  
 
Naturally there are a host of celebrities on hand to participate in the revelry, including long-time partner and fellow Cali Agent Planet Asia. The west coast Wonder Twins activate "Endless" with their gruff-voiced Cali big talk, trading sixteen bars of venom over echoing strings, chopped samples, and hefty drums. Chali 2na of the golden age-reminiscent Jurassic 5 lends his reverberating baritone to "The Sweet Science," the two rap heavyweights unloading a flurry of battle raps spiked with boxing metaphor. Rasco's lyrical footwork here would make even Roy Jones Jr. proud: "I stick jabs in your abs and stay in the lab rhyming/ going for feints and bad timing/ this be the team that can shatter your spleen/ I go twelve rounds, baby, `till your clock is cleaned, knaamean?"  
 
It's mystifying why some record labels would rather let artists spin their wheels doing trendy crap or nothing at all, rather than allow them to make quality albums like Escape From Alcatraz. Rasco's latest effort proves his ability to skillfully craft lyrics that dance between aggression, introspection, and social awareness, while recruiting producers that can adeptly balance his gruff demeanor with rich soul, jazz, and funk-based production. Rasco's situation should prove encouraging for other artists - you may be smashing rocks today, but stay diligent and you'll be making smashes tomorrow. 
First of all the Biggie issue, "Similarities in my voice ni**a check the words."-Shyne. Yes, on first hearing Shyne's voice you may think of Biggie, but upon hearing the rest of the album you'll have forgotten all about the the very little similarity, if you haven't you have issues. The difference between Shyne and Biggie, besides the younger and healthier voice of Shyne, is that Biggie was a studio gangsta' where as Shyne is for real. Biggie even said it himself in an interview, he sits with friends and takes their experiences and makes them into songs. You can feel Shyne's album is real, you hear it in his voice, in his lyrics and you can see it in his eyes. He has many scars to prove his battles both inside and out. Trust me besides the lyrics, which Shyne writes himself, you have the hottest beats to hit a hip-hop album in a while. Shyne shows how versatile he is by rapping to fast jungle beats, slow "love" songs, and all those bass pumping tunes. Trust me when I'm driving and I need something to hype me up I throw in the Shyne c.d. because it's truly hot.  
Big Tymers' "I Got That Work" is one of my new favorite rap  
CD's. It has a wide range of moods with songs that are slow  
and songs that are fast paced and hard. Great for a loud car  
stereo system but equally at home in your living room stereo.  
Big Tymers, (featuring Lil wayne and juvenile on most tracks)  
talk mainly about the amount of money they have on this CD.  
It kind of raises your spirits to hear that there are people  
in this world that can buy some of the things that these guys  
own. It has it's fair share of swearing (which never bothers  
me) but it's done tastefully even though it's a hardcore rap  
CD. Not for kids, but great for all else. I bought it because  
my friend introduced me to one of it's premiere tracks... "Get  
Your Roll On" by far the best track. The only thing I wish was  
different was that... it never ended. If you like Juvenile,  
B.G., Hot Boyz, or the 504 Boys, then this CD will fit right  
into your musical collection. EH.  
while i usually don't convince myself to just BUY cd's because it's a sophomore effort, fabolous was a little different. his first album was something that maybe one friend bought and we ALL listened to it indifferently. in other words, it didn't have the same power as LINKIN PARK'S debut (i couldn't stop listening to HYBRID THEORY).  
 
then between albums 1 and 2, fabolous made some great songs that never were really released. one of my favorites is a song called "just don't stop", featuring a great beat and interesting flows. as i listened to online stuff from dj clue's mixtapes, i gained a better appreciation for his music.  
 
well, as STREET DREAMS came out, i felt the sudden urge to buy it and pop in. this is what i think over a month after buying it:  
 
2. not give a f***: it's just one of those songs that you say would be great if it just had a different beat. i mean his lyrics have some humor to them. one of my favorite lines goes along the lines of "i'm here to take away your meal, almost like it's RAMADAN".  
3. damn: this is the song you listen to one the way to a party or club, or anywhere that's high energy. the beat feels goofy to me, but i still like the song as a whole. i think it's one of the top songs, of course if it wasn't made into a single.  
4. call me: another top song (which i hope doesn't turn into a single) along with #3. great song reflecting FAB's average day. unlike 50 CENT singing his own chorus(es) in his cd GET RICH OR DIE TRYIN', FAB smartly chose to have girls sing the chorus with bits of FAB himself talking. definitely a smart move by "THE KID".  
5. can't let you go: a reunion with "SUPERWOMAN" singer LIL' MO, and i'd describe this song as one of the best recent hip hop "love songs" (i use love loosely on this one). when you listen closely, it's about that girl that's his "other girl" besides his wifey. "cuz the entree ain't as good without somethin on the side" is one of those lines that i'm just gonna remember no matter what.  
6. bad b****: a cool song, but i wouldn't use it for anything more than a party dance song. it's one of those times that the songs really don't apply to most of the world . "i got a bad b**** on my left side, bad b**** on my right side"... come on FAB, that's what i call a "street dream"!  
7. why wouldn't i: for some reason, i'd have to say i wish FAB would've dumped this song's beat for something better. actually, i wish the whole song was dumped. enough said.  
8. up on things: featuring snoop dogg. fab uses a little bit of west coast flavor, almost making it a continuation of dr. dre's "still d.r.e.". great cruising song, not really a party song.  
9. sickalicious: as much as i like missy on her OWN songs, she doesn't really sound right on this song. i think the lyrics are tight, but the beat needed to be something COMPLETELY different.  
10. this is my party: his first single, no review required!  
11. into you: great use of ashanti, as she makes #4 CALL ME sound better and sweeter. i guess this could be the next good hip hop love song. one of my favorites, as FAB slows down and makes one girl the object of the song as opposed to street dreaming about the all night sex parties.  
12. change you or change me: for some reason, i really DON'T like this song. i don't know why, but i think it's just too slow of a beat underneath funky flows.  
15. never duplicated: a cool lil song to bump in the ride or a party, has a bit of neptunes sounds in it, which always makes songs better. i think if anyone says his flows are better on this album, a lot of it is on this song.  
17. my life: a classic 90's sounding song featuring mary j. blige on the ENTIRE chorus. sounds like j. lo's "all i have" song, but more "hip hop-ified". i wish this song DOESN'T get released, because i think it would get worn out pretty quickly.  
 
there are some more songs on this album, but i think i well represented most of the good (and some bad) songs. FAB has much improved his flows, quit spelling his name (as mentioned in a scene of his TRADE IT ALL 2 video), and didn't make the whole album a series of guest spots. it could've been made a lil better, but so can everything. hope this review was helpful!  
You know it when you hear it. Your toes start tapping. Your head starts bobbing. And it doesn't even matter if the lyrics are wack; the beat has you hypnotized. From Justin Timberlake to Nelly, Ludacris to Britney Spears, to everything else on your FM dial: you know a Neptunes track when you hear one.  
 
The Neptunes are by far the hottest producers in hip hop, putting their stamp on the industry by making hot joints for nearly every major artist out right now. From every corner of pop and hip pop, the music industry's envelope has been pushed by the forward thinking of super producers Pharrell Williams and Chad Hugo.  
 
With their recent release, "The Neptunes Present: Clones," the Neptunes showcase up-and-coming artists from their Star Trak label while getting help from some of the hottest names in hip hop, making for a killer compilation of fresh beats featuring the Neptunes' signature sound.  
 
Busta Rhymes starts the album off with the club banger "Light Your A$$ On Fire." Busta spits verse after verse about seriously lighting a girl's backside aflame over a hypnotic dance beat. N.O.R.E. also gets a similarly trance-like beat to rhyme over on "Put Em Up." With a catchy chorus, N.O.R.E. replicates his "Superthug" success from years ago.  
 
Pharrell himself appears on a number of tracks, including his own single, "Frontin" featuring Jay-Z. But the album is less focused on Pharrell or anyone else's vocals; the beats outshine most of the verbal performances on "Clones," with a few exceptions.  
 
Ludacris spits fluidly on "It Wasn't Us," a track featuring a broken hip hop beat reminicent of his early Neptunes-blessed track, "Southern Hospitality." The song is not only a standout in terms of the Neptunes' contribution; it is also one of the few on the album that have lyrics solid enough to accompany the amazing beat.  
 
Nas also comes through on "Popular Thug," with his vocals perfectly balancing those of his bride-to-be, Kelis. The lovebirds provide a notable chemistry on another song with lyrical matching to an above-average beat. Snoop Dogg also spits a classic ode to chronic over a smooth bell-laced beat on "It Blows My Mind."  
 
Other noteworthy performances include two cuts by The Clipse on "Blaze of Glory" and "Hot Damn," and an odd track by Dirt McGirt (formerly Old Dirty Bastard of Wu Tang Clan). New Star Trak artists Rosco P. Coldchain (not to be confused with Young Roscoe) and Fam Lay also put down lyrics and while none of the cuts are skippers, they aren't as solid as those done by the veterans (Snoop, Nas, Ludacris). However, Vanessa Marquez drops impressive vocals on "Good Girl," a cut with a great '80s or early '90s feel.  
 
Hip hop heads may wish to bypass the diversity on "Clones," via the three rock contributions found mid-album. Also slightly out of place, the Neptunes themselves, in the form of their experimental genre-breaking group N*E*R*D, add an odd track, "Loser." The song will be featured on the Madden 2004 video game.  
 
While the beats never fall short, some of the lyricism does. Nelly proves it's hard to ruin a Neptunes beat on his failed effort "If," a song that borrows it's chorus from a previous Nelly tune. Similarly, Rosco P. Coldchain misses the mark on "Hot," a song with a minimalist beat that could allow an emcee to truly display his skills. While The Clipse hold their own on the track, Rosco fails to impress.  
 
"Clones" would be ill if were released as a pure instrumental album, but the performances of a few of the most seasoned veterans in the game add greatly to the overall appeal of the Neptunes' skillful display of hit making.  
 
With "Clones," the Neptunes certainly secure their spot as one of the most influential and progressive collective minds in music. They provide a solid foundation of beats from start to finish on "Clones;" whether the lyrics hold up to the track is another story. One thing is for sure: as solid is as a Neptunes beat is, it's difficult for any artist to ruin their genius, despite the content of the lyrics.  
 
When it comes to a killer beat, the nNptunes got it on lock.  
 
The special edition release also includes a DVD with videos "Frontin," "Hot Damn" and "Rock N Roll" and interviews with the Neptunes. Unfortunately, the disc won't work on my computer's DVD player.  
Once upon a time there was a rapper named Nas. He crafted a sheer hip-hop classic, one of the best albums of all time, called Illmatic in 1994. The album didn't succeed in sales, but dropped the jaws of hip-hop heads nationwide, as they considered Nas the savior and one of the best ever. In 1996, he followed it up with It Was Written, a more mafiosio album, less riddled with Street Poetry. On that album, he brought together two of his proteges: AZ and Cormega. Both of these emcees, along with Nas himself and Foxy would go on to form The Firm, a hip-hop super-group. However, weeks after its inception, Cormega found himself kicked out the group and replaced with the slightly weaker rapper Nature. Cormega had no choice but to go out on his own. After a plethora of label problems, he felt it was hopeless, until 2001 when he released The Realness, in my opinion, a modern new-classic album. If Nas were still his friend, it would make him extremely proud...  
 
 
 
Track List & Rating  
 
1. Dramatic Entrance (4 Stars)  
2. American Beauty (5 Stars)  
3. Thun & Kicko f/ Prodigy (5 Stars)  
4. The Saga (5 Stars)  
5. R U My N*gga? (5 Stars)  
6. Unforgiven (5 Stars)  
7. Fallen Soldiers (5 Stars)  
8. Glory Days (5 Stars)  
9. Rap's A Hustle (4 Stars)  
10. Get Out My Way (5 Stars)  
11. You Don't Want It (5 Stars)  
12. 5 For 40 (4 Stars)  
13. They Forced My Hand (5 Stars)  
14. Fallen Soldiers (Remix) (5 Stars)  
*/SYM BONUS: Killaz Theme f/ Mobb Deep (5 Stars)  
 
 
 
 
"Dramatic Entrance" is a great opening track, but only food for "American Beauty", the first real classic from The Realness. Taking the age-old extended metaphor formula, started by Common on "I Used to Love H.E.R.". Cormega uses his extended metaphoric skills to compare hip-hop music to a female. Cormega sort of tells the story of hip-hop being "abused" and "raped" by the industry, specifically sell-out rappers, as he storytells the life of his fe-male, a.k.a. hip-hop. His lyrics are some of the best of his career, as well as his delivery, as he shows some amazing vocabulary, and a great flow. The beat, is a soft, synthesized guitar sound, with claps and bass stringed together perfectly. My only complaint is the shortness of the track.  
 
"Thun and Kicko" features Mobb Deep's own Prodigy, as he and Cormega trade off giving us dark, poetic street tales. The beat is a soft bass, mixed with a sort of hard banging track, giving it a murderous texture. Prodigy and Cormega paint themselves like Mobb Deep have constantly on their classics, as street demons and prophets, as well as graphic storytellers and narratives. They also touch on the street-wise topic of loyalty, which is discussed more thoughroughly on "R U My N*gga". The beat, though saddening and melancholy, is beautifully put together, with a gripping, almost-mafiosio-styled cello snare, with a background whistle, and some perfectly synthesized bass. This beat would be perfect for a mafia movie, but the lyrics are a bit far-fetched from that. Cormega goes way back to his childhood, moving up into his teen years, questioning the true factors of loyalty and honor in life. The perfect beat and amazing lyrics, mixed together with unique and creative subject matter fuel this into being a Cormega Classic.  
 
"Fallen Soldiers" is a touchy, very creative track where Cormega sort of prays at night time, talking to his very close friends who passed away due to the streets. The emotional lyrics are as detailed as it gets, giving us storytellings of the particular deaths of his friends, and how it happened. One interesting lyric pays homage to Killa Black and Ill Will, whom Nas and Mobb Deep constantly grieve. Im guessing that the ties in Queensbridge are very strong. The beat is melancholy and deep, with a mixture of low-bass and keyboard, and some high synthesizer sounds. This is an extremely honest track, and he never wastes a lyric on this entire track, which makes it another one of my personal favorites.  
 
"Glory Days" is yet another saddening look into the mind of Cormega, as he makes himself one of the true masters of street poetry. On this track, Cormega gives us a flashback of his childhood and youth as we get retrospective storytelling about his childhood, which he loved, yet hated due to his involvement in the streets. This track is perfect for a nice underground single, and 'Mega's lyrics are SO well-written, thoughtful, and descriptive, than i can actually visualize everything he was talking about, and you KNOW if a song makes you do that, its a classic. The lyrics are a testament to the production, which is a beautiful medley of violins, bass, some guitar, and piano. "Rap's a Huscle" is strikingly similar, only on this track, Cormega fast-forwards to more recent events, as Cormega uses his extended metaphor skills once again, comparing hip-hop to huscling and pimping on the streets. He claims rap music is commited to him, and how much he loves H.E.R.. His metaphors are perfect, and the R&B sounding production is nothing but pure magic to the ears.  
 
Of course, as you may guess, Cormega lays down some verbal attacks towards his enemies on The Realness, namely his former teacher Nasir Jones, aka Nas. On "Get out of my Way" and "You Don't Want it", Cormega attacks Nas with his lyrics. The first of the two is a mix of battle rhymes, and old school braggadiocio, with well-written lyrics and a multi-syllable flow. The beat features an amazing assortment of classical elements, like violins, trumpets, and hard bass and drums, giving it an epic feel. The second track is much more straight-forward as we actually hear the N-A-S being called out. Firstly, the track's beat is a sombre, saddening piano beat, with a light, old school drum / snare. Secondly, Cormega annihilates Nas lyrically. The complex, multi-syllabalistic, vocabulary, and amazing punchlines and threats. Cormega gets intelligent, as he makes some very good points about Nas' career and the fact that it is loaded with hypocrisy.  
 
"5 for 40" is an accapella freestyle, very well spat and deserving of 4 stars. "They Forced My Hand" closes out The Realness (besides the remix). Ironically, this is my favorite song on the entire album. The beat is epic and loud, with some haunting and beautiful R&B background vocals, a beautiful piano loop, violins, hard bass, and drums. Cormega solidifies his spot as one of the illest poets and emcees in history, giving us an introspective view of the streets, its darkness, but begs for hope, and thinks it may happen. No doubt, beautiful. By fast forwarding the "Fallen Soldiers Remix" you get to a hidden track "Killaz Theme II", in which Mobb Deep drops by to give us haunting street narratives. This is a hauntingly evil, yet perfect way to end The Realness.  
 
The Realness could possibly be the best album of 2001, in fact, it is, and one of the greatest of all time. Its deep street poetry, melancholy and perfect production, and lyrics and it should be purchased by all true hip-hop fans. Cormega hasn't just left from Nas' shadow, hes basically jumped out like a video game character with this album. Is it the modern day Illmatic? Possibly, in fact, very likely; Is it a Classic? Yes, Will it make me dance? F*ck No; Will it make me think? F*ck Yes; Are the beats good? Yes; Should i buy it? VERY Stupid Question....  
 
5 Stars  
Although Cormega was kicked out of the AZ, Nas, Nature and Foxy Brown group The Firm some time before the groups' debut album, he joined Def Jam records and was working on his own never released debut album The Testament. Soon after, he was facing jail time on charges unknown to me and never released that album. Some years later, he's finally released his true debut album, The Realness. Although I had high expectations for it, it lived up to be everything I had believed it to be and is nothing short of amazing. Though Nas would say different, Cormega is almost a reincarnate if him. With this said, its hard not to notice the street poetry, the delivery and multi-syllable flow that's apparent throughout the albums fourteen tracks. Although many would probably disagree with me, but Cormega's style is, perhaps, better than Nas ever could have thought. While Illmatic is a classic album of street poetry, The Realness deserves, in every right, to be in that particular hall of fame.  
 
 
Below Is A Track Listing And Their Overall Rating:  
 
1. Dramatic Entrance (*****)  
2. American Beauty (*****)  
3. Thun & Kicko (*****)  
4. The Saga (*****)  
5. R U My Nigga? (*****)  
6. Unforgiven (*****)  
7. Fallen Soldiers (*****)  
8. Glory Days (*****)  
9. Rap's A Hustle (*****)  
10. Get Out My Way (*****)  
11. You Don't Want It (*****)  
12. 5 For 40 (*****)  
13. They Forced My Hand (*****)  
14. Fallen Soldiers (Remix) (*****)  
15. Killaz Theme (*****)  
 
 
Dramatic Entrance is a classic album opener. Instead of an intro or a skit to level everything out with talking about nothing and various sound effects that make no sense, we get an actual track.  
 
The low-key, very angelic beat is brought to life by a rather complex drum loop and extremely well-fitting harp sound effects and a scaling keyboard effect tops everything off. Without a doubt the beautiful production is only one part of this seemingly ingenious album opener. The actual lyrics are second to none. Cormega doesn't fuck around with bragging, various comments or just rambling on about nothing, he actually kicks a few verses that touch down on his time before this albums release and how few thought he would actually record this classic album.  
 
The overall effect of hard-hitting lyrics, an on-point flow and suiting production is downright amazing. The one thing I was most surprised at was the fact that he didn't waste any time getting into the actual rhyming and deep subject matter that The Realness undoubtedly has.  
 
The following track, American Beauty, is a rendition of the classic Common track, I Used To Love H.E.R.  
 
The overall effect is still the same as 'Mega uses the metaphor of a woman for the various uses that Hip-Hop has for both the underground and the mainstream. Over low-key, relaxing production, his poetic lyrics spill the message into your ear-drums and the whole idea seems fresh again. His lyrics are second to none and his flow perfectly suits the slow, saddening beat extremely well. The only problem I have with this particular track is that even though his lyrics are extremely good, the track is too short for him to actually go into any detail that wasn't heard on Common's version.  
 
A few tracks up, we come to my favorite track, bar none on the album. R U My Nigga is a questionnaire of trust and loyalty.  
 
With a beautiful beat provided by Jae-Supreme that consists of a brilliant synthesizer section, a scarce drum loop and a bass kick that tops it all off, Cormega retains his poetic lyrical elements. The subject is brought to brilliant light both by his approach to the subject matter and his street poetry that is included through the track playing off of trust in the streets and his actions that may even warrant distrust. The idea being handled this way is a fresh idea and works considerably well.  
 
To top it all off, listening to valid points over a first-class beat with poetic elements thrown in as well, you can expect a classic track which is exactly what comes from this. ("The insecurity of things they might never see/Makin' niggas minds corrupt, then my nine erupts/Denyin' what, life you had expired/You tried your luck, then died for what/You asked for forgiveness but my eyes was shut/You wasn't wise enough, to stop me from risin' up/Are you my nigga?")  
 
Skipping over the dramatic Unforgiven which seems to recall the events that lead to his incarceration, we come to the heartfelt and emotional Fallen Soldiers.  
 
Over melancholic bass lines and a keyboard effect that is as somber as the bass lines themselves, Cormega reaches into the Heaven's and tries to connect with his deceased friends. With complex, emotional lyrics that are as simplistic as they can be incredibly deep rhyme-wise, you can never say Cormega isn't emotionally honest. With each bar he comes off as pained and regretful, as many of us are after we've lost a loved one.  
 
Not only is he incredibly serious and melancholic in tone, his subject matter touched whoever is lucky enough to hear this brilliant track. Emotionally lyricism is one thing, but crafting a great beat over poetic lyrics that craft more emotion than the production itself is stellar. Without a doubt the introspection here is one of the many stand-outs on The Realness.  
 
The following track, Glory Days, shines because of its original and extremely well-produced beat and it's retrospective, professional lyricism.  
 
After that particular track, we come to another outstanding moment. Rap's A Hustle is an original metaphorical track that uses the idea of pimping for emceeing. 'Mega's pen is the prostitute and he is the pimp; this is an extremely original idea in and of itself.  
 
It doesn't come as any surprise that the production is stellar. Over a scarce drum loop, airy sound effects and a keyboard-style background that gets your head nodding immediately, he kicks his original subject matter with no faltering moments. He drops the poetic elements for more Old School-styled lyricism which is slightly simplistic in the rhyme department but just listening to his great use of metaphors is a great listen in and of itself.  
 
As well, over a beat that is near perfect in every aspect makes the track all the much better; without a doubt this extremely fresh view of Hip-Hop is something that more Hip-Hop needs to utilize.  
 
You Don't Want It follows later on in the album and is a better example of the battle raps you'll find throughout The Realness. Much in the same vein as Get Out My Way but lighter in tone, 'Mega spews venom and Nas and everyone of his other peers.  
 
Over a piano arrangement and a light drum loop, 'Mega drops insult and truthful statements to verbally attack Nas with multi-syllabic rhymes and a scheme that is both complex and on-point flow-wise. Without a doubt this even outweighs Nas' diss to 'Mega, Mobb Deep and Nature with Destroy & Rebuild from Stillmatic simply because he doesn't use typical battle tactics but instead uses the honest truth. This approach is something not many chose to use. 'Mega doesn't resort to immature insults but relies on great lyricism and valid points to explain the situation with Nas, and belittle him. ("You wanna talk violent, but Sig P.'s for solution/I stalk silent, when I proceed execution/Taught by the, realest niggas to walk the planet/With one thought you vanish, like the Corp. remanded/You on the Ave with your weak mans frontin'")  
 
The albums ends with the great freestyle 5 For 40 the introspective They Forced My Hand and a classic remix to the already perfect Fallen Soldiers.  
 
Even with the album appearing done, after about two minutes of waiting after the Fallen Soldiers (Remix) ends, another track starts up. An ominous background starts up over a dark bass line, the sound of a record popping and low vocals darken the track all the much more.  
 
Killaz Theme II is and outstanding track, so it comes as a surprise that it's a bonus track and isn't included in the track listing. Both member of Mobb Deep appear on this track and assist Cormega on dropping some extremely dark, ominous lyrics about the true reality of the streets with a hardcore edge. All three give a great performance with their own distinct flows and subject matter for this particular topic. Although it's not officially the album closer, the lyrics themselves leave a lasting impression and leave the album on an extremely good note.  
 
This is one of the greatest albums of all time; I would even go as far as to say it's the modern day Illmatic. Out of every one of the fourteen tracks, none of them approach being weak and are all stellar. Cormega sticks to the streets here and never approaches selling out, which means this is an essential albums for every real Hip-Hop fan. The outstanding lyricism, great subject matter and fitting production makes this one of the greatest albums you're likely to hear within the category of street poetics. Find it, buy it, live it.  
RJD2  
Deadringer (Definitive Jux, 2002)  
16 Tracks 59:19 Time  
 
1. The Horror - 2. Salud - **3. Smoke & Mirrors** - **4. Good Times Roll Pt. 2** - **5. Final Frontier** - **6. Ghostwriter** - 7. Cut Out To FL - 8. F.H.H. - 9. Shot In The Dark - **10. Chicken-N-Bone Circuit** - 11. The Proxy - **12. 2 More Dead** - 13. Take The Picture Off - 14. Silver Fox - **15. June** - 16. Work  
 
 
The Hip-Hop world is an ever-evolving place for Columbus producer RJD2. Two years ago, this guy was doing DJ work in the Columbus area as the lesser-known producer for the MHz. Today, he's moved to Philly, PA, is busy promoting the hugely acclaimed 8,000,000 Stories with emcee Blueprint (collectively known as Soul Position), has recorded what is possibly the single of the year in MF Doom's Saliva, and may even be recording with The Roots for their upcoming The Tipping Point. Let's put it simply and say the man has made a name and a reputation for himself. A lot of this stems from his glorious solo debut, Deadringer.  
 
While this is an Instrumental Hip-Hop album, trust me, you won't miss the lyrics. While the album starts with the quirky, dense, mood-setting The Horror it quickly brightens up into a journey through the wonderful world of soul. Smoke & Mirrors shows RJ filling a dark but wondrous track with hard trumpet loops and reflective soul singing samples. Ghostwriter skips the vocals completely and instead goes with a boarderline country guitar sample which bursts joyously into triumphant horns that will leave you breathless.  
 
Being a popular DJ around Ohio's biggest campus (Ohio State), RJD2 knows how to have a good time which is exemplified by Good Times Roll Pt. 2. If I had a time machine, I'm pretty sure RJD2 could have sold this track to some Motown artist in the old-soul era. It's got all the dance, rhythm, and atmosphere of a back-in-the-day party anthem.  
 
To give us a Soul Position preview, Blueprint crashes the party on Final Frontier. With a wicked piano riff and a little added bounce, RJ sets 'Print up for an easy score. 'Print proves he's up to it too, spitting, You're not ill and if you are/ My notepads full of medicine/ Plus my freestyle is Excederin/ Take two rhymes and call me back with a new style/ Be sure you're prepared for the final frontier (We're here!). And indeed, Soul Position has officially arrived on the scene.  
 
While Deadringer is entrenched in soul with a little fun, RJD2 manages to get hard-nosed and a bit reflective. Chicken-N-Bone Circuit shows his great love of hard drum loops as he forms one of the most chaotic, head-nod-inducing drum beats you will ever hear on wax. On June he opts for atmosphere instead of the usual steady soul-loops while bringing along MHz emcee, Copywrite. Between Copy's tight intro/retrospective verses RJ digs out a beautiful guitar to drive home the passion of his fellow artist. It's one gripping track.  
 
Nowadays, RJD2 wakes up as an in-demand, financially stable, top 3 producer in Hip-Hop and Deadringer is much to thank for that. As he continues to ride the verge of complete success, those who know will always point to this album as his major coming out party. Pick up Deadringer, you won't be disappointed. 
Nia, meaning purpose, is one of the seven principles of Kwanzaa. It is defined as making our collective vocation the building of our community to restore our people to their traditional greatness.  
 
This is the principle upon which Blackalicous members Chief Xcel and Gift of Gab built Nia, a masterpiece highlighting the fusion of soul, jazz, poetry, and hip-hop, while still maintaining a dedication to positivity which is lacking in so much of today's music.  
 
 
Track Listing:  
 
1) Searching  
2) The Fabulous One  
3) Do This My Way  
4) Deception  
5) A to G  
6) Cliff Hanger  
7) Shallow Days  
8) Ego Trip by Nikki Giovanni  
9) You Didn't Know That Though  
10) If I May  
11) Dream Seasons  
12) Trouble (Eve of Destruction)  
13) Smithzonian Institute of Rhyme  
14) As the World Turns  
15) Reanimation  
16) Beyonder  
17) Making Progress  
18) Sleep  
19) Finding  
 
 
 
The third track "Do This My Way" features Lyrics Born of Latyrx, another group on their label, Quannum Projects. Over a basic drum & bass track, the artists freestyle and free-associate using different pitches, rhythms, and syncopation. It's tight to listen to how many different ways the artists can interact with the track. Lyrics Born raps:  
 
"I'd be the first ever Asian astronaut/  
Blastin' off/  
Castin' off/  
The ties that bind like a smashed guitar/  
Rode a Mastodon/  
Out Jurassic Park/"  
 
 
The fourth track "Deception" tells the fictional tale of an aspiring hip-hop artist whose immediate success causes him to lose perspective, and as a result, leads to his downfall. To reinforce the theme, the group recites "Don't let money change you" as the hook. Xcel and Gift of Gab use a deep bass as the foundation of the song with piano accompanying the bass. Verse two goes:  
 
"His first single was an overnight success hit/  
Now he went from wearing rags to the best fits/  
All his new acquaintances/  
Gassed his head/  
Takin' it/  
To the point where he lost all his perspective/  
Started cuttin' on the people he came up with/  
Ego blown like his soul had been abducted/  
Though his heart was once real/  
Now material/  
Has filled/  
Up his world and he couldn't get enough of it/  
Used to want to be the best of the rap gods/  
Now his only one concern is going platinum/  
And his skill has since decreased/  
And the inner hunger ceased/  
Now content just as long as fame and cash come/  
He's a big Willie now rappin' `bout cars/  
Thousand dollar shopping sprees, hangin' out with stars/  
I mean, just a year ago he was broke, bumming money,  
Drinking out the 40-bottle, living outdoors/"  
 
 
"A to G" was obviously designed to display Gift of Gab's lyrical precision. In this song, a sample is played which announces a letter of the alphabet, from the letter A to G. Then the rapper freestyles several bars using that letter, and manages to make a point and rhyme, despite the limits of alliteration. It's great to listen to a true MC go to work.  
 
 
"Cliff Hanger" is a throwback to the days of classic hip-hop, when MCs didn't have to take themselves so seriously. The song reminds me of Special Ed's "I'm on a Mission" and other songs along that vein, where the rapper takes on the role of a protagonist in some fantasy/espionage/sci-fi tale. In this one, Gift of Gab becomes "The Chosen One", a warrior who was chosen to wield a mystical sword and vanquish evil from some foreign land. The beat is very catchy and the lyrics are so descriptive that the listener can almost see the tale unfold.  
 
 
In my opinion, poetry has a natural place on a hip-hop album. Rap's lyrical delivery follows poetic form, so the two often work very well together. Lyricist Lounge Vol. 1, Black Star, and Killah Priest all had great works of poetry on their albums, and Nia does as well. On Ego Trip by Nikki Giovanni, Blackalicious takes a recitation of Nikki Giovanni's poem and sets it over a laid back drum & bass hook. The words flow effortlessly over the beat for a very pleasing effect.  
 
 
I feel like I could go on forever with this review, so instead I'll trim it back a little. "Shallow Days" soulfully relays the message of the need for positivity in hip-hop music and culture. Poignant observations of life are shown in "As the World Turns". Classic battle raps permeate "Trouble (Eve of Destruction)" All these and many other songs contribute to one of the most original rap albums I have ever heard.  
 
 
I honestly cannot find anything negative to say about Blackalicious' Nia, except that there should be a lot more albums out there like it. Give this one a listen, you will not be disappointed.  
Styles of Beyond is taking the idea of west coast rap and hip hop in general and giving it a 180 degree whirl. Formed by Los Angeles MCs Ryu and Takbir, this group is one of the most forward moving, futuristic sounding hip hop acts around. With ample skills from both emcees and backed by some of the most prolific dj's and producers of the underground, their unique take on hip hop is one to pay attention to. While the duo doesn't undertake anything as pretentious as rapping off and then back on beat or creating an unlisteneable, extremely busy production backing like that of the Def Jux label (sorry ethompson3,) the sparse RZA like beats and futuristic lyrical subject matter creates images of flying cars and lunar colonization.  
 
Formed in 1995 at a community college in L.A. where the duo met each other during break, the two formed an instant bond and respect for each others skills. After working hard in the underground mix show scene, the two released the video game inspired track, Killer Instinct, in 1997 and gained immediate respect and accolades from the underground. In order to quench the thirst of hip hop fans, they released 2000 Fold in 1998 to a receptive crowd. Using techno-like, futuristic soundscapes and skilled turntablism, the duo sounded like Jedi Mind Tricks on LSD. After a long 5 years, SOB released their new album, Megadef, with a parody cover of Metallica's design.  
 
Favorite Tracks  
 
2. Styles of Beyond performed by Styles of Beyond / DJ Rhettmatic - 4:50  
3. Hollograms performed by Styles of Beyond / Space Boy Boogie X - 3:49  
4. Dangerous Minds - 2:47  
5. Spies Like Us performed by Styles of Beyond / Emcee 007 - 3:38  
6. Winnetka Exit - 4:13  
10. Survival Tactics - 3:38  
 
Worst Tracks  
 
There are a couple filler tracks, but even those are entertaining in and of themselves.  
 
On To the Review  
 
The Intro is a live track displaying Styles Of Beyond and their collection of scratch tracks. Nice intro, but ultimately it gets skipped.  
 
The album gets kick started with the title track, Styles of Beyond or Style Warz. The production is heavily infuenced by RZA with a repetitive, wobbly bass line and some piano keys looped over and over. However, this is an extremely entertaining track, aided by incredible turntablism and vocal echo samples. The lyrics deal with the ceremonial progression of Styles of Beyond and their pioneering efforts within the underground. Lyrical imagery is what these two do best, and this track fully emphasizes this concept. Great track, but better ones up ahead!  
 
With an eerie, piano loop and liquid dripping along with an incredible, drum and bass like bass-line, Hollograms remains my favorite track on the entire album. Sampling Pharoahe Monch between verses, the duo continue with more futuristic imagery and the two emcees display their lyrical dominance of the mic. To me, the lyrics are like Canibus' scientific braggadocio aspects but with a blend of imagined millenial forecasting (if that makes any sense.) Example:  
 
Occupants in my space, bring it on, try to harm me  
I grab a gun and start to unload like Finnish laundry  
Terminology rips, like full clips through {bullsh*t}  
Funk flips off the tongue, Ryu's on some pool {sh*t}  
Bellyflops and whatnot, low audio sonar  
Tractor beams pullin all dreams into the polar  
Symetic solar systematically scramble thoughts  
like eggs on Sunday morning, OJ and acid drops  
Randomly rippin spots, spittin dope like freebasin'  
like an open invitation to come and kick it with Satan yo  
 
Now thats what I call imagination...  
 
Dangerous Minds continues the insane trend of perfection. With a heavy breathing of a dying creature in the background as well as an eerie flute loop a la Apocalypse Now, the track is set up for some apocalyptic, futuristic lyrics. The creativity that is displayed is grandiose as usual, tying in some braggadocio with the movie Dangerous Minds, the two emcees rip it:  
 
Actin like a G, but your name ain't Julio  
Messin with my Dangerous Mind like you was Coolio  
Michelle Pfeiffer, I keep it hyper like a sniper  
Buckin in plain view, my fangs bare like a viper  
Step into my cypher son and get tagged  
around the toe MC RahRah now you John Doe  
 
I had to include that one. ;)  
 
Spies Like Us is an extremely entertaining concept. Essentially, the two plot the spying on hip hop, eventually setting their goal as capturing and taking it over. The track production is not as immediately engaging as previous tracks, but the genius is still there, with incredible wood flutes looping during the choruses. Overall, this remains one of the best tracks on the album, without the added help of guests or scratching, two of the main strengths of the album as a whole.  
 
Winnetka Exit's resemblance to RZA and his patented, early Wu-Tang hooks is uncanny. WIth a sparse beat composed of repeating guitars and a vocal sample, the track is minimalist in that RZA kind of way. A symphonic sample is also included, engaging the listener ever more into the Styles of Beyond world. The two emcee's rep where they are from; the Valley in Los Angeles. However, the lyrics aren't as incredible as the earlier tracks because of their more straight forward approach. Some might like it, others, including me, do not like it as much.  
 
After these 5 excellent tracks, the album starts dragging a bit. Muuvon engages the listener in a "head nodding" way, although the lyrics are second nature to the beat, which is a mish mash of speedy bass-heavy track-work. After listening to it for a while, the listener gets sort of a headache. This is one of the few track that the listener can skip. Besides the decent, loopy production, Easy Back It Up is more lyrical filler about women and live shows. Nothing misogynistic, but yet, just as dissatisfying.  
 
However, Survival Tactics more than picks up the slack with an excellent track, both lyrically and production wise. With a surfer guitar strumming and marracas and wood block in the background, the track just screams "creativity." The lyrics are on point, using futuristic war storytelling as a metaphor for their live shows. Excellent track, once again.  
 
Gollaxwelcome takes the space/galaxy concept even further. The two emcee's invite aliens to land on Earth and to display themselves to the world. While a little bit loony, the production incorporates another futuristic Wu-Tang like loop and some cowbell along with a stuttered bass-line. The gravelly, lo-fi characteristic of the production lends itself well to the continuity of the album as a whole.  
 
Killer Instinct, their first single, as well as Marco Polo end the album on a positive note, with great production as usual and lyrics that are on point. This is a classic album, with a bit of dragging in the middle, but nothing to detract from the skill and creativity displayed by both Ryu and Takbir. Hurray for another great album!  
Totally Devoid of Humor Mental Hospital  
Official Intake/Evaluation Form  
 
Patient Name:Keith Thornton  
Aliases:Kool Keith, Dr. Octagon, Black Elvis, Dr. Dooom, Mr. Gerbik  
 
Previous mental health treatment: Treated at Bellvue Mental Hospital briefly, occasional follow-up visits  
 
Employment history: Rapper for hire; previous employment with the underground hip-hop group Ultramagnetic MC's, performing under the name "Kool Keith". Since then, has recorded albums for several labels. Apparent issues related to identity, having operated under several names and personalities. Employment record spotty, containing numerous periods of inactivity.  
 
Doctor's Notes: Finding Mr. Thornton deeply distracted and virtually incapable of coherent communication, I have chosen to analyze his artistic work as a manner to perhaps find some insight into his mental health issues.  
 
In commencing upon this effort, I came across his 1996 album Dr. Octagonecologyst, recorded under one of his many aliases, Dr. Octagon. Upon listening to this album, I found myself deeply disturbed; perhaps this patient may be beyond my medical skills.  
 
As the album begins, I am first disturbed by the first track, "Intro". A conversation between a patient and a doctor, this brief dialogue (apparently taken from what Mr. Thornton refers to as a "porn flick") demonstrates a disturbing preoccupation with sex, particularly in the highly unethical patient/doctor context. Initial thoughts: maintain distance between females in the facility and Mr. Thornton. Suspicion of hypersexual and/or sexually compulsive behavior. Particularly of note: the repeated, echoing cries on the track of the female patient exclaiming, "fuck my pussy, doctor!"  
 
Continuing from here, we find Mr. Thornton's delusional behavior coming through, apparently believing himself to be in the year 3000, on the aptly named track "3000". While his lyrical flow is quite competent, and the assistance of Dan "The Automator" Nakamura on production, makes for an overall quality song, it fails to hide his clear case of dementia.  
 
On "Earth People", I see that his delusions are even more intense than previously believed. Keith Thornton is apparently convinced he is, in fact, from Jupiter. He also seems to believe he is actually a doctor. While he attempts to mask his delusions with clever lyricism and more of Nakamura's production skills, combined with DJ Q-Bert of Northern California's Invisible Scratch Picklz work on the turntables, there is no doubt: Thornton is most assuredly mentally troubled.  
 
"Real Raw" seems to suggest that Thornton has an inflated sense of self, filled with declarations of his superiority over others. Additionally, it seems to indicate a perhaps sub-conscious propensity for violence hidden behind his facade. Evidence of this is further found in the track immediately preceding it, "No Awareness", which begins with an excerpt from a movie discussing cannibalism, leading into a song with a decidedly Wu-Tang Clan-like tone to it. Note to self: make sure orderlies are made aware of subject's potential for violence, and are knowledgeable in the proper use of restraints.  
 
"General Hospital" appears to be a continuing manifestation of Thornton's delusional belief he is a doctor. Showing blatant disregard for proper medical behavior, he proclaims a patient dead of chirrosis of the eye, a disease which doesn't even exist. I am increasingly troubled, curious as to what activities the patient was engaged in prior to treatment.  
 
"Blue Flowers", outside of the patient's continuing belief he is a practicing surgeon and his description of "green rain", is unusually cogent, perhaps written during a more lucid period in his disease. It is also accompanied by an impressive bit of musical creativity by the previously mentioned Nakamura and Q-Bert. I am curious as to the mental health of his cohorts working on this album...perhaps I should provide my findings to the appropriate authorities in San Francisco.  
 
"Technical Difficulties" is the most obvious example present of the "word salad" typical of most disorganized schizophrenics. With lyrical samples such as:  
 
Chewbacca's not here i'ma do it for your circumcised  
Niggaz don't realize my format is a palm spectrum  
To damage any rectum  
This is the real dinosaur funk which permitted g-funk  
To play anally through the trunk a digital master  
Was given to sam cooke and jimmy castor  
 
It's pretty apparent that the patient is far from mentally stable.  
 
Another sample from one of the patients "porn flicks", entitled "A Visit to the Gynecologyst" contains elements of female impersonation, sexually compulsive behavior, and (possibly) rape, I am beginning to question the ability to rehabilitate Mr. Thornton.  
 
Even more disturbingly, on the track "Halfsharkalligatorhalfman", Thornton now claims his is Dr. Octagon (himself)'s 208-year old ancestor, named Mr. Gerbik, a self-described "half-shark, half-man, skin like alligator. Carrying a dead walrus". I am now resigned to the fact that this case is going to take a long time.  
 
As the album closes with "1977", the patient's psychosis seems to have intensified, now believing himself to be a house party MC in the late seventies. Admittedly, Nakamura's production captures the flavor of the song. However, this only suggests further that Nakamura is clearly complicit in Thornton's delusions, and should be kept away from him if at all possible.  
 
Conclusions: In my studies of Dr. Octagonecologyst, I have been able to clearly conclude that Mr. Thornton has some severe mental issues that may take substantial work to overcome. Recommend regimen of 125 mg Seroquel daily, with dosages of Ambien as needed.  
 
Also, I highly recommend purchasing the album Dr. Ocatagonecologyst if you are a fan of underground, creative hip-hop music. Additionally, you will be helping with the treatment of a person clearly in need of mental help.  
 
Great Music to Play While: Tripping on acid and playing video games  
Alcatraz is arguably the most infamous prison on our planet. Built in the early 1900's, housing names like Al Capone, Alcatraz is considered one of the harshest, most impenetrable prisons ever. San Francisco rapper Rasco, living near the facility himself, utilizes the prison as a metaphor for his label struggles. The label in particular that he is implying about is Copastik Records, headed by Jon Saxton. After "escaping" that "prison," Rasco found his way to Coup D'Etat Records, and he relishes his new freedom with this new album.  
 
The Intro kicks off the album with sampled soundbites describing the hopelessness of Alcatraz, the desolate inescapable prison. After this setting-setter, we get Get Free. Here, Rasco uses Alcatraz to symbolize two separate things. First, he uses it to urge people to "escape" from whatever is holding them back in life. The second meaning is more personal, which is his own struggles with his previous label. He calls out Jon Saxton here, talking about his previous adversity in the industry. Building upon personal setbacks is U Got The Time. Over a relaxing, soulful guitar loop, his verses flow easily on this uplifting song. Here he once again urges his listeners to break free of everything keeping them from doing what they want. Rasco's songs have an uplifting message, while managing to keep his tracks down-to-earth and more happy than sad.  
 
The Sweet Science features Jurassic 5 member Chali 2Na, and the two MC's trade the first two verses and share the third. Here, they use a boxing metaphor as a symbolism for their battle rhymes. The beat is more bouncy, featuring samples and strings, and it seems more geared towards Chali 2Na. There are other nice guest appearances as well. San Fran To The Town features Casual form the Hieroglyphics. Here the thick guitar loop meshes with Casuals nice-sounding flow, and its laid-back and relaxing. And on Endless, Planet Asia pops in for an upbeat track that complements their speedy flow. My Life is another bouncy track, where Rasco touches on an array of things, from politics to morals (politics and morals in the same sentence?!).  
 
After an Interlude, Rasco drops the passively venomous Snakes In The Grass (The Jon Sexton Story). Rasco calmly tells of his legal brawls with Copastik Records and Jon Saxton, accusing them of stealing his songs, his money, his career. He tells about how he was fighting to leave them, and his reaction now that he is free. Then it shifts from a narrative to a battle track, and he calmly rips apart Jon Saxton's label, rapping like he couldn't care less about the label, yet dropping vicious lines. This sort of song is reminiscent of Common's Cube-diss, because both songs feature an artist who is not known for his viciousness who lashes out and obliterates his opponent in the most laid-back way possible.  
 
All I Wanna Be closes out the album, with guitar strings and Kisha Griffin singing the chorus. Here, Rasco raps as if he is confessing, telling us what he wants in the future, and his desire to "escape" the route his career in rapping has taken to this point in time. And with this personal note, the album ends. Rasco's newest LP is one of the best of 2003, get it now.. his talent on the mic was not "imprisoned" on this album, and your urge to buy it should not be either. Ras branches out into many different aspects of rap. From dissing, to introspect, to retrospect, Rasco lays it down skillfully with enough greatness to make Jon Saxton wish he wasn't such a moron. Congratulations Copastik, Rasco just made all of you look like the conformist "imprisoning" label you really are. 
At last... My survival in the Epinions community has reached its peak. Big D has achieved what few have managed, the amazing feat of 150 reviews under his belt. Im sure its been riveting, and/or boring reading me preach about real hip hop, and doing reviews from AZ to Wu-Tang, to Jay-Z, to Nas, to 2pac, to Eminem, to Gangstarr... ive pretty much touched every single style of hip hop possible. Ive done reviews on underground hip hop, abstract scientific rap, battle rap, commercial rap, triple-cadence lyricism, political rap, and all of the above. For my 150th review for Epinions, i had to choose a special album. One that virtually everybody on this network of reviews loves and enjoys. One that is considered a classic by all... what better album can there be than Ras Kass's golden classic Soul On Ice.  
 
In 1996, Hip Hop was a pretty good, yet bad state. Within the flames of the horrid east-coast / west-coast rivalry, tons of classics were released on this magical year of 1996. Albums by Jay-Z, Gangstarr, Mobb Deep, and 2pac fueled our thirsts for hip hop, but both coasts were not only split by rivalry, but split by style. The east coast of hip hop relied more on complex lyricism and social consciousness, shown by such emcees as Nas, The Wu-Tang Clan, Jay-Z, Mobb Deep, Biggie, and many more... However, the west seemed more jiggy and gangsta, fueled by the emergence of Death Row Records and Gangsta Rap. Emcees like Dr. Dre, Eazy-E, Ice Cube, Snoop Doggy Dogg, Kurupt, and 2pac were giving us the G-Funk style of hip hop. However, it seemed difficult to find any true competent advanced lyricists in the west. With the exception of a cadre of underground lyricists and Kurupt, there were no really good lyrical masterminds from the west.  
 
Along comes Ras Kass. There was so much buzz surrounding the underground west coast hip hop scene in 1993 over this man that it is ridiculous. Ras Kass was known for his freestyles and b-sides he would release in the underground. At one point, he caught the eye of a record executive who listened to his Soul on Ice EP, and immediately signed Ras for a deal. It took a little under a year for Ras Kass to complete his first major label debut, entitled Soul on Ice, which was released in 1994. Ras Kass was on top of the world, until this album was pulled from stores for its extremely graphic, somewhat racial, and controversial lyrics. Unfortunately, it was put out of print and very few real copies were left avaliable on the planet. Unfortunately, many have not heard this album, and those who have can consider themselves lucky, because Soul on Ice could arguably be the most lyrical album in hip hop music... hands down.  
 
 
 
Track List & Rating  
 
1. On Earth As It Is... (5 Stars)  
2. Anything Goes (5 Stars)  
3. Marinatin' (5 Stars)  
4. Reelyishm (5 Stars)  
5. Nature of the Threat (5 Stars [10 if i could])  
6. Etc. (5 Stars)  
7. Sonset (5 Stars)  
8. Drama f/ Coolio (3 1/2 Stars)  
9. The Evil That Men Do (5 Stars)  
10. If/Then (4 1/2 Stars)  
11. Miami Life (4 1/2 Stars)  
12. Soul On Ice (5 Stars)  
13. Ordo Abchao (Order Out of Chaos) (5 Stars)  
 
 
 
Soul On Ice is labelled by many hip hop heads, myself included, to be lyricism at its finest. Absolutely no jiggyness, or useless thug rhymes, or money-flashing included here. All you get is extremely well-written, thoughtful, socially conscious lyrics, with a blazing delivery, loaded with a plethora of metaphors, similes, wordplay, punchlines, and a multi-syllable flow. If you dont think that this is the most lyrical album, it definetely gets the trophy for most metaphor used within an album. Because Ras Kass complex biblical and scientific metaphors explode track after track, giving us a more advanced form of battle rapping and braggadiocio, besides all of the intelligent, socially conscious, street-smart moments also included.  
 
Ras Kass kicks it off with "On Earth As It is...". On here, Ras Kass takes the battle rapping style of hip hop to a new plateau. The first thing you notice is the deep, underground production chosen for this track, which is incredibly good. Featuring some thumping basslines, drum loop, and synthesized effects, this offers Ras Kass a beautifully haunting backdrop for his vocals. Ras Kass gives us one of the most creative tracks ive ever heard, as he gives us a battle rap mixed with braggadiocio, loaded with biblical metaphors and similes. Seemingly every single punchline or bar is loaded with a biblical metaphor, where he compares himself to a variety of religious figures, including Jesus Christ himself. His unorthodox skills on the microphone guarantees that your jaw will drop listening to the lyrics more than once on this track. Its clear that Ras does his research before writing a track without having to resort to reading "Jiggyness 101" and "Sell-Out 101".  
 
The hip-hop martyr who sacrificed and gave my life  
But got "4Pac", so I'm livin the "Thug-Life" in the afterlife  
Then I be walking through the pearly gates  
with an infared scope ten millimeter heater  
Cuz if my name ain't in the "Book of Life" I'm snuffing St. Peter  
Drinking the blood of Jesus Christ and p*ssing holy water  
no QUESTION who can come cleaner  
M-P-C plus M-I-C equals holy B-I-B-L-E to me  
Matrimony is getting head but I refuse to break bread  
with Jezebels, my management already gets twenty percent  
so f*ck tieing, go to Hell... I'd rather continue backsliding  
You're not from the tribe of Judah, so why you lying?  
Come watch the Zion, I'm signifying  
the next sh*t to wreck sh*t and see the Exodus  
 
"Anything Goes" is our first showcase of Ras Kass' street poetry. Ras gives us some tight verses about getting ahead of life. He claims that everybody on the planet will do anything to get money, which sort of mocks a lot of people, including commercial rappers who sell-out for money. Ras Kass' metaphors and insertions of battle rhymes complement the track perfectly. Ras sort of admits to following the mentality of taking the easy, yet cheap, way through life, but mocks those who do it because he has gotten more advanced in his mind than he was at that time. The production is well produced, featuring some harmonicly deep basslines, drum / clap loop, low-keyboard violins, and some background vocals, which fit with the dark mood of the song and the lyrics. Another masterpiece.  
 
"Marinatin' is next on Soul on Ice. The instrumental is a slow-paced, jazzy sounding track with some flutes, snares, some synthesized keyboards, a triangle, drum loops and a low bassline. Ras Kass takes the west coast mentality of G-Funk and inserts it into the track, rapping a slow song about a party, Ras Kass' style. However, do not get this mistaken with commercialism, because this is not the case. Ras Kass vividly describes living the good life, very vividly, and separates himself from the other west coast rappers with his use of metaphors, clever wordplay, similes, and utilyzes a more in-tune multi-syllable flow for the third verse.  
 
Ras continues the jazzy tunes with "Reelyishm". Ras Kass drops social commentary of himself, comparing himself to the current state of hip hop music, stating that he doesn't care about selling records as long as he keeps it real and true to the underground. On the second verse, his lyricism improves using a more advanced scientific vocabulary and a multi-syllable flow. Ras raps about the streets at times, giving it a more street poetry feel. The production is very simplistic, but fits the mood. Featuring a loud clap, violins, a hard bassline, and some old school R&B vocals for the chorus. Definetely another classic.  
 
Slides over liquidated grains of asphault caught cranial calluses  
Over analysis leads to paralysis, mediocrity my nemesis  
Try to f*ck every radical feminist I meet, call it engage and defeat  
That's the reason why black men hide in the womb, homes  
Cuz life is all taxes and tombstones  
So as flesh and bone I zone my thoughts explode with rap shranel syntax;  
That'll wax to the past, and present the future of Ras Kass lies in the skull,  
Like the coronal suture... So I write truly fat sh*t for the core audience  
But sometimes I wonder does it really exist?  
Cuz true lyricists in hip-hop Joe Public be dissin  
N*ggas don't relate, elevate and its treated like elevator music  
 
At last, we get to defining moment of Ras Kass career, and of Soul On Ice, possibly the single most controversial track in hip hop: "Nature of the Threat". To summarize it as best i can, Ras Kass time travels back to the birth of humankind in itself, tracing the history all the way back to present day. Ras Kass gives us a plethora of narratives covering the oppression of caucasian individuals / white people towards african american individuals and basically the entire world. Ras Kass raps about nearly all of the mistakes in the past, striking out with tons of a bunch of claims about changing the entire history of Jesus Christ, the Roman Age, the birth of the Smallpox / Aids Viruses, and the myth about Thanksgiving. This lone track has become a pure legend among hip hop heads worldwide. Ras raps on this track, telling the entire story for nearly 8 minutes straight. He mentions so many historical figures, too many to count on this particular review. Ras Kass' research for this track took months, and his effort is extremely appreciate, even though some of the information is a bit off and wrong, but either way he makes you want to go to your local Public Library and actually research these facts yourself, that is how much of an impact this song has. When it comes to the basic hip hop elements, Ras is on point with top-notch lyricism, metaphors, similes, clever wordplay, and a shining delivery. The production is deep and dark, driven by a recurring bassline, low-drums, and church bells in the background. This is a nominee for greatest hip hop track ever recorded, and if you're looking for a lyrical sample.. sorry... try ohhla.com, if not... then buy the album, which is what you should've done a long time ago.  
 
"Etc" is next. On here, Ras switches up a bit. Ras speeds up his flow, almost reaching a triple-cadence style, but slows down at times. Ras uses amazing lyricism to take down all the commercial rappers and materialistic emcees in this venomous battle rap. Ras is extremely clever and loves to use wordplay on this track, for a partion of the track, Ras uses some amazing alliteration, starting almost every word out with the letter "R". His metaphors are of pure genius at times, and he gives us a new one every two or three bars... amazing. The production is more funky, with some vocal samples, scratching, synthesized bassline, flutes, and drum / snare mix. Awesome track.  
 
I dispense dope sentences without a prescription  
prefixes asphyxiate b*tches who flips linguistics  
Representin the West, relevant to relentless sentences  
If renegade rebels resent this wicked syntax (then jack)  
Revert to revolution Ras reverse, reverberates  
Revolvin with written retalliation, rate repetitious  
Reflex flex, regret n*ggaz regress to less than recoup  
When recording, I wreck, records  
Reflect stupid, it's so much more than just another rap and sample  
Cause I model more styles than Naomi Campbell  
See we been burning idiots with lyrical syphillis  
Since E.S.T. was Ackniculous, the nickle slick meticulous  
 
Ras Kass gives us a track dedicated to the lost hip hop coast of the West, with "Sonset". Ras stands up for the west coast on this track, displaying his lyrical skill and exploratory flow, which is amazingly good. Ras Kass sort of declares war on the entire east coast simply for thinking that they had superiority over the west. Ras Kass mocks their superiority complex, which sort of angered Ras. I'm very sure that this not to fuel the fire between the coasts and the Biggie / Pac wars, but is simply standing up for his coast. The production is simplistic, with a haunting snare, accompanied by deep bass and drum loops, which matches with the lyrics perfectly.  
 
Ras Kass is joined by average rapper Coolio on "Drama". Ras Kass gives us a seducing, pimp-sort of song, with a twist. Now, usually this is treading on commercial ground, but Ras Kass is a lot different. Ras Kass gives us a metaphoric masterpiece of females and how they act, addressing relationships and the greed of women. Coolio comes in to drop an average, mediocre verse, further showcasing the talent margin between the somewhat successful Coolio (at the time), and the underground sensation Ras Kass. Ras Kass gives us a more fun-loving, light hearted track, put together perfectly with a light-hearted beat.  
 
This is followed by the introspective "The Evil that Men Do", where Ras Kass pens his eight classic so far on Soul on Ice. Ras Kass changes his tone and raps on a socially conscious level as he raps about the evil that men commit during their lives, and how humankind is leading towards pure hatred as it is fueled by anger and selfishness. Ras Kass addresses racism, hate crimes, physical and emotional abuse, and life on the streets. Each lyric is powerful and preaching, and loaded with clever narratives. Ras Kass raps more about his personal life as he travels through his days watching his own errors, as well as other people's errors. Its an extremely introspective look on life, from a first-person point of view. The beat is one of the better beats on the album, with a hard thumping bassline, drums, some jazzy / organ instrumentals, synthesizers, harps, and low-piano keys. Definetely a masterful track.  
 
Nappy headed n*gga stigmatism at birth  
Born to a family of four and so that makes me one-fourth  
of a dysfunctional home... I had a father who only stayed to see me grown  
When I turned twelve he was gone  
Alone, no role model  
I used to watch my Granddaddy and Uncle hit the bottle  
and then hit each other  
Granddaddy beat Grandmother, but that's before my time  
but I still see how it affected her mind  
As a child I introverted, and drew pictures  
While my mother prayed to Jesus reading King James scriptures  
 
"If/Then" is an incredible, Canibus-like battle rap. Ras Kass gives us venomous battle rhymes, filled with intelligent wordplay, metaphors, similes, alliteration, multi-syllable flow, and memorable punchlines. The chorus is an adaptation from an old Dre track, keeping the west coast mindframe for this track. The instrumental is a very unique, abstract sounding beat with a thumping bassline, background flutes, synthesized snares, drum and clap mix.  
 
Fools lay claim to fly rhymes but I terrorize airlines  
My mind's a porcelain Glock 7 slippin' through the metal detectors  
Ready to wet'cha like baptism  
It's rap pugilism when I be placin' 208 bones in one zone;  
With microphones, I'm like the Blade Runner hunting clones  
I "Beat It" like one glove and a bad nose job  
With more breathin techniques than Lamaze  
Ras still be drinkin' malt liquor brews  
And continues the liquidation of crews  
Wit' a drunken technique like Shun Di's kung fu on Virtua Fighter 2  
 
"Miami Life" is the only single that i am aware of that was released from Soul on Ice. This changes a bit from the pro-west coast lyrics to pro-Miami, which is a big weird. Ras Kass raps about basically "Miami Life", as he gives props to his life in Miami, and the life-style in Miami. He uses metaphors for everything from beaches, to the Godfather, to everything. The metaphors and similes in this track are too high to count and is yet another lyrical wonder. The beat features some sombre synthesized flutes, drum / bass, and some background siren noises. Nothing too special, but really good and complementary to Ras skill.  
 
The title track "Soul on Ice" is next. This is actually a remix of the original, done by Diamond D, who provides a new beat. However, ive never heard the original, so i cant judge the original, but i can say that this beat is nice. It has some chimes, synthesized pianos, and a drum / clap mix. Ras Kass raps in a very "Public Enemy" style, rapping about everything from the problem to the world, to mixing it up with battle raps against commercial rappers, sort of taking the mentality from where the song originated. "Soul on Ice" was originally a book written by former Black Panther Eldridge Cleaver, where he wrote about african americans living in America, loaded with problems (avaliable on Epinions). Ras touches on those topics and sort of does a re-interepretation of the book. Yet another classic.  
 
The final track on the legendary Soul on Ice is the aptly titled "Ordo Abchao (Order Out Of Chaos)". The introduction to the song is a thumping and haunting drum beat, until a horn, piano keys, chimes, hard bass, and some background vocals, which provide the backdrop for the rest of the track. Ras Kass comes on the mic with yet another classic as he points out a handful of conspiracy theories, government cover-ups, mixed in with social consciousness about how its basically towards blacks. Ras Kass raps about the anger and hatred towards blacks for no reason, and how even the government is trying to control us with diseases. The subject matter is amazing and will keep your ears open. Sort of a sequel to "Nature of the Threat", which provides a perfect close to the album.  
 
Now sh*t gets no realer, reality dictates fate  
Gobal Policy 2000 by then, the planet depopulates  
By about 1 billion men women and children  
By whatever means necessary  
Wars, diseases, starvation, plagues etc.  
Set ya watch and watch Lord Matreya ascend  
Been in effect since before George Washington Monument  
 
Soul On Ice has stamped itself as being one of the candidates for being the Greatest Hip Hop Album in the History of Music. Ras Kass provides lyrical classic, after classic, after classic and sometimes i feel that he is the greatest lyricist of all time. However, he sort of killed that notion when he released the extremely mediocre Rassassination. Amazing Wordplay, mixed with intelligent vocabulary, controversy, metaphors, similes, confidence, storytelling, narratives, and a socially conscious eye, and you've got Soul On Ice. This is one of the most highly reccomended albums i could reccomend... to everybody. Soul On Ice is a CD which will forever be declared royalty within the annals of time...  
 
 
 
5 Stars... Pure Classic  
Usually when a hip hop group is forced to re-assemble after a dismantling of the original group, the results are less than favorable. Not so with the Arsonists. Going from a sprawling group of five original members, to a smaller three, actually helps the flow and makes the album a much more consistent showing. The original Arsonists release titled "As The World Burns" was essentially a mish-mash of old material recorded since 1993 up to 1999 and the variance in production and skill throughout that time period is overwhelming. The original five was cut to just three, Jise, Q-Unique, and Swel 79. These three MC's released the album "Date of Birth", a much more thorough and unique listen than the original. Lyrically, the three play off of each other very well, seemingly finding a perfect fit.  
 
Usually an intro on modern hip hop records is purely there for album filler, but even this trend is torched by the Arsonists. "Date of Birth" summarizes the new Arsonist sound and keeps the listener updated on the trials and tribulations of the crew. Introducing all three MC's style it makes for a moving foray. "Stay Lo", the second track on the album is a total destruction of mainstream rap and the platinum status achieved by many such artists. "A million sold don't make you pro" Jise alerts. The beat is pretty standard affair and it takes a backseat to the lyrics, as it should. The next two tracks are just as good as the second one, continuing to scorch mainstream rap and moving towards a hip hop nirvana. Nirvana is reached on  
"Language Arts" an absolutely incredible track. Using traditional Japanese kabuki theater strings with a deep bass beat along with some scratching. The lyrics surprisingly are not the main focus because the production is so truly innovative. Its something you must witness to believe. The next truly grandiose track is "Alive" another amazing production track with great lyrics. Nothing on the album reaches the perfection achieved by "Language Arts" or "Alive", but the overall album is up there among the best underground releases of 2001.  
 
I would recommend this release to anyone who likes to hear more than just the typical gangsta "bling bling" mentality. Sad to think that this group will always remain beneath mainstream radar, never reaching more than a cult status, but then again, isn't that the point?  
Zion I: Zion (rhymes), Amp Live (beats), DJ K-Genius (scratches)  
 
Production: Amp Live  
 
1. Creation - Intro  
 
2. Revolution (B-Boy Anthem - Zion I's first song is an infectious blend of Asian-sounding backgrounds and futuristic Southern bounce. This isn't the best of his rhyming abilities, but that doesn't matter too much because this is supposed to be an anthem. They did their job right, because it really sounds like one. - 5  
 
3. Critical feat. Planet Asia - If DJ Premier's descendants from the year 3000 made beats, they would probably sound like this. Zion and Planet Asia from the Cali Agents flow really well over this. - 5  
 
4. Mysterious Wayz - Now we get a middle-eastern futuristic beat. Zion tells a cool story about meeting an Arabic woman. The production and the rhymes are perfect together. - 5  
 
5. The Choice - Skit  
 
6. The Koncrete Jungle - Another choppy, futuristic beat from Amp Live. My description of this album might make it seem a little monotonous, but believe me it's not. It's just that the only word I can think of to describe it is "futuristic." - 5  
 
7. Metropolis - This is just an instrumental track from Amp Live. But it's a full-fledged drum and bass track, not hip-hop. This is a DOPE track. - 5  
 
8. Oh Lawd - Skit  
 
9. Trippin - DAMN this beat is good. Zion continues to flow nicely over these beats. This is probably the best song so far. - 5  
 
10. How Many - Like all the other songs, Zion strives to be creative and not just resort to any old subject matter. He asks the listener a bunch of questions over this song. Once again, Amp Live comes through with the beats. - 4.5  
 
11. Elevaton - This song has Zion I's collective creativity peaking. This song sounds nothing like any hip-hop you've ever heard before. The beat is pretty much drum and bass, but this time Zion tries out a new flow. Instead of racing to keep up with the pace of the beat, he rhymes in a sedated, half-time flow that makes the chilled-out vibe of the production even better. - 5  
 
12. A Little Change - A little disappointing after the previous song. This isn't up to par with the rest of the album so far. It has a pretty unique beat, though. - 3.5  
 
13. Fools Gold - Skit  
 
14. Venus - This is a song about commercialized hip-hop using a woman as a metaphor, in the same boat as Common's I Used to Love H.E.R. "Sometimes she shake her thang, sometimes she want to chill / But otherwise she searching for that doggone dollar bill / Yo, she settin up the kill from the moment that it starts / Prayin on the weakness that be lurking in they hearts." - 4.5  
 
15. Rap Degreez - Some more futuristic production, this time with an Indian and Wu-Tang influence (plenty of kung-fu vocal samples). This is also one of Zion's best moments as an MC. - 5  
 
16. Silly Puddy feat. The Grouch - A couple of my friends think this beat is too spaced out, but I think it's incredible. Underground hero the Grouch makes a nice guest appearance, and Zion comes very tight with his rhymes. - 5  
 
17. Inner Light - The first single from the album is a classic. This one is very similar to Elevation, where Zion has a laid-back delivery over relaxed, but fast-paced drum and bass production. - 5  
 
18. Big Ups - Skit  
 
19. All Tha Way feat. Knowmatic, Rasco, and 427 - The other half of the Cali Agents, Rasco, two MC's I've never heard of, and Zion all rip into this nice beat. A great posse cut, I just wish I knew who half the posse was. - 4.5  
 
20. One - Zion I was formed in Atlanta (although they are California-based), and the Outkast influence seeps through in this track, namely the sound from their sophomore album ATLiens. That happens to be a classic hip-hop album, and a personal favorite of mine, so naturally I LOVE this track. - 5  
 
21. Inner Light (Icey Remix) (Bonus Track) - A lot of the time, bonus tracks would really be more appropriately titled "Throw-away Tracks." Fortunately for us, this remix is even better than the original. "Life is one big road, with lots of signs / Let your inner light shine / Let your inner light shine..." - 5  
 
Songs - 4.75  
Beats - 5  
Rhymes - 4.5  
Originality - 5  
 
Overall - 4.75 / 5  
 
Simply because they aren't on a huge label or have their videos on MTV, Zion I is criminally slept on. The best thing about this CD is it's wide appeal. I already compared Zion I to Outkast on one song, but they deserve another comparison: both groups have a universal sound that can appeal to both the average listener who simply turns on the radio to hear music, but by the same token both have more than enough artistic merit to please even the most picky, critical backpacker who listens to music simply because other people don't know about it. The big difference is EXPOSURE. I guarantee Zion I would sell millions of records if the video they made for Revolution (B-Boy Anthem) (yes, they have a video for it) was given rotation on MTV, or if Trippin, One, or Inner Light were played on major radio stations.  
 
But enough about their potential. Now I'll talk about the actual reasons of why they're good. First off, we have the beats. Amp Live turns in an extremely impressive performance on this album, putting his own personal spins on hip-hop and drum and bass. I've never heard production like this before, but I sure as hell wish I had. Next, the MCing. Zion isn't the most complex MC you'll ever hear, but every song he writes has a message. And although the beats could probably stand without Zion and be rhymed on by anyone, Zion and Amp Live REALLY have chemistry together. I'll use Gangstarr as an example: DJ Premier can produce for anyone, and Guru can flow over anyone's beats, but they always sound better together. Same thing for Amp Live and Zion.  
 
This album is a near-classic, my favorite overall album from 2000, and one of the most unique albums I've ever heard. Buy it immediately if not sooner.  
Zion I is a group of 3 men: MC Zion, producer Amp Live, and DJ K-Genius. Their futuristic sound is one I have yet to hear reproduced. They originate from Atlanta and have since moved to Oakland. They combine hip-hop, drum n' bass, techno, and god-knows-what to create a musical soundscape unparalleled in maybe all of music.  
 
"Mind Over Matter" starts with "Creation" which is, simply, a sampled reading of The Bible's Genesis that describes God's creation of light. I'm an athiest, so this immediately had me questionable, but this should not stop anyone from continuing with the album.  
 
"Revolution" is the first single off of the album. An incredible club-banger that has MC Zion dropping pure hiphop lyrics that talk about everything there is while still making it a party track. The production is revolutionary. Scratching, violin sounds, a chopped bassline. Listing them cannot convey the way that they merge so beautifully on this track. "I'm a b-boy, that's all that I am/step into the party with a fireproof plan/I'm a b-boy, that's all that it is/step into the party, got up with the pyramids." I usually prefer high-vocabulary strewn lyrics but this music is hip-hop as its very purest. Oldschool and futuristic simultaneously.  
 
The next song, "Critical" has lyrical mad-man Planet Asia trading verses about the mission of the emcee over a beat that sounds like the whole song is a sample, the way it thumps and repeats and stops. To quote Planet Asia, "My brother hit me on the game/Said that we original man/And we manifested here to spit slang/I thought a minute, and let it sink /Deep like the Titanic /We wider than the ocean of Atlantic/Pacifical mythical styles /In the west it's gettin' wild/I'm chillin' like the Sphinx upon the Nile/  
Reverberating/Why is you hatin' hip hop we creatin?/Across the desert sands we be bakin'/My melanin/The key to lock rock spots and flocks /Walk the rugged avenue with my B-Boy bop/It's evolution toss a pebble at the devil and smile/  
I'm rebellion while propelling freestyles" Sure, it seems haphazard at first, but you need to understand the state of mind these emcees are entering to comprehend.  
 
"Mysterious Wayz" has MC Zion telling of a love story with a mid-eastern Asian woman that hypnotizes him with her exotic flair. The beat seems to come straight out of that region of the world, with flutes and the sound of what must be some kind of magic dust being dropped. ??? Hard to describe. "She's from a land of sand/where pyramids dwell/and angels blow their breath through sea shells/Like Isis, Oshun, and Ausset/Mysterious lady that I can't forget." Mystic words from a man that seems to seperate from his confining human form when rhyming.  
 
But this supernatural vibe doesn't last forever as the truth of reality strikes us. "Tha Choice" is a spoken word piece by a poet that, after waking up after the time with the mysterious lady, speaks of the horrible life in an urban setting. Sounds from the city whisper in the background until... With a harsh thumping syncopation, MC Zion starts the next track "Koncrete Jungle," telling of this same pain. The track is pretty much about how he hates the city and such an existence. "Dark streets/swoll feet/where massive trash heeps/You speak/Most weep/SORROW/runs deep/Pain/Escape through cocaine..." he goes on in a staccato tempo that freakishly embodies the city's moral horrors. I'm from NYC and this song always hits me when I hear it. The city theme continues as the musical geniuses sample Mos Def's lines "Metropolis...Who on top of this" over a long-running instrumental DJ-capade of city-sorrow. Techno-paced snaps and crackles convey the pace of life in the Metropolis, building on the two tracks before.  
 
"Trippin'", what many consider the best track on the album, has a tint of that southern influence with a beat that is ... intergalactic. I can't find another word. MC Zion tells of the pains of living in itself, the world and its self-inflicted crimes. "Seem like everybody trippin/Or is it me?/Being normal nowadays, It'll drive you cra-zy/Go to work 9 to 5 everyday, no retreat/You got to have a dollar  
Just to get somethin' to eat/It seem like everybody trippin'  
Or is it I?/ Crazy lady walkin around. Shoutin curses at the sky/Instrumentals be the lullaby/Rhyme stimuli,/ now come along, And vibe as we praise most high/You be trippin'/  
Why is you trippin, why is you trippin'?/" Yes, it has the religious tint to it, but it does not, in any way, take away from the track.  
 
"How Many" has the topic of before revisited in a more poetic way with lucious piano keys being stroked for the beat and the occasional organic guitar whine. MC Zion poses so many of life's questions in the form of "how many?" Truly beautiful song.  
 
"Elevation" is one of the more techno influenced tracks with a repitive beat that can send you to sleep, but in a good way. MC Zion talks of days of before and days in the future. Again, the content is incredible. Anyone who believes that hiphop has no morals deserves to be proved wrong. Use this track against them!  
 
And then the moral anger of Zion I is unleashed. The topic of $/$ is tackled from so many angles. "A Little Cash" samples Brooklyn respectable emcee AZ as MC Zion asks for "a little change." He means it in both ways, ironically. The intelligence is on another level. This topic continues with "Fools Gold" where the DJs sample rappers talking about money... from Rakim's "Paid In Full" to Jay-Z's "Money Ain't A Thing."  
 
And then sex. See the pattern? Violence, Money, and now Sex. MC Zion talks about "Venus," that Greek goddess of love and criticizes her wiley ways, greed, and the way she treats everyone, as well as how she has been treated. A great extended-metaphor, a conceit, creates this track. Original, indeed.  
 
The criticisms are pretty much done, and now "Rap Degreez." MC Zion is pretty much doing that "I am MC" thing, talking about the powers of the MC, bragadaccio rhymes, mystic powers, etc. and pulls it off without seeming cocky. And the beat is ...OFF THE HOOK. I think they sample the music from the lava level from Nintendo 64's "Mario 64" for the beat. HA!  
 
"Silly Puddy", with super-introspective emcee The Grouch talks about the human being and how we are influenced by everything. Our flaws and abilities, and our nature as a whole. As The Grouch says, "No one to claim Creator yet the masses are perplexed/Cause by life we're so impressed, we all wish we had a next." The beat is space-age satellite influenced, as you can tell, and the two emcees' contrasting flows fit perfectly over the beat.  
 
"Inner Light" is as positive as you can get about us. It covers humans again, but our possibilities and good aspects. This second single has a magnificent violin and flute and god knows what else. A true masterpiece of music. What does this album NOT cover?? Definitely one of the best tacks  
 
Then there's "All Tha Way," a blazing battle track similar to "Twince inna lifetime" from Blackstar's album the way it's set up, featuring Eclipse 427 and Rasco. Then "One" ends the album on a techno beat once more, as Zion I closes this book with an appropriate epilogue.  
 
Best Tracks: Inner Light, Mysterious Wayz, Revolution, Rap Degreez  
Worst Tracks: Big Ups  
Coming out of the streets of New York city, through Chicago, as a former member of the Mental Giants crew, and hot off the success of the lead single on the LP, "Hot Ya Hot", Akbar has released his debut full length on Ill Boogie Records, the imprint of production/DJ guru M-Boogie.  
 
Akbar means "the greatest" in Arabic, so right off, this kid had better have skills, because it's obvious he has cockiness in spades. In terms of vocal style, Ak sounds pretty generic, and a lot like any of the hundreds of MC's that have tried to ply their craft coming out of NY. This con is countered however by the fact that Ak can DEFINITELY flow for days. He's got a very smooth delivery, nice punchlines, and he's able to paint a vivid mental picture when necessary.  
 
So does it work? There's a lot of MC's with skills in the game today (see Canibus) that have failed because of beats, so success isn't a given for Ak, even though he has the skills. Let's check it out.  
 
***  
 
1)Hip Hop Is...  
 
As the title would suggest, a basic track giving a breakdown on what Akbar thinks hip hop is. A DOPE beat here provided by Jun, which features a rolling piano loop, and could have been done by Premier, it's executed so slickly. Some nice cuts provided by Fredones, and the lyrics are on point too, with Ak using a laidback, Nas-like flow to give his thoughts on hip hop. A great opener.  
 
"Hip hop is  
A style that's wild  
A ghetto child looking for a reason to smile  
Hip hop is  
The application of street knowledge  
For modern day situations not learned in college"  
 
2)No Suckas Allowed  
 
Some ill cuts intro the track here, as M-Boogie makes his first production appearance on the LP. He provides a moderately paced beat with a funky bass line, and some nice 70's sounding organ synths, with scratches interspersed throughout the beat. Ak decides to take on wack MC's on this track, spitting some serious venom in their direction. His voice may be a bit generic, but he is REALLY good with his flow...I mean SERIOUSLY good. Amazingly, as verbose as the track is, I think it would REALLY rock a party hard.  
 
"When ya came in the party and you saw the crowd  
Shoulda read the sign,  
"No suckas allowed"  
This jam is for the real rappin fans  
Put the stomp in your feet and the clap in your hands  
The nod in your head, and the hump in your back  
With the uncontrollable urge to jump in the track  
You know I'm bout to come up with something phat  
When I take control, can't nothing hold me back"  
 
3)Bigga Dey Come  
 
After some silence, a couple of bells enter the picture, and the mood changes up quite a bit from the party vibe of the previous track. A darker bassline underlines the bells, and some basic drums accompany it. This is on some more basic NY ish here, and reminds me of something Mobb Deep would maybe rock over. A nice touch is that you can hear the record crackliness and pops. Call me a sucker for analog. Befitting the production, Ak goes a little deeper with the lyrics here in the first verse, concentrating on his life, and whether or not others would remember him if he was gone, and if they did, what they would think. The second verse focuses on a lot of the supposed conspiracies in the world today (ie. drugs provided by the government). A dope track that shows yet another side of Ak.  
 
"How can I hide from the genocide?  
Job provides ultimate route to get me out  
And escape  
Babylon fate no doubt  
There's only one righteous path, you do the math  
While you hold your breath waiting on the year 2000  
The government's busy taking your public housing  
Wages kept minimum, it's new millenium  
Replace your ghetto with condominiums"  
 
4)Take It There  
 
A nice piano loop once again, highlighted by a dope horn sample at the end of it makes up the beat here. After a few seconds a nice bassline comes in and serves as perfect compliment to the samples. The lyrics deal with Akbar's formative years came about, as he narrates his early life, and his multiple moves from NY to California to Chicago. A nice touch is the use of some old school loops interspersed for added effect during the song. Halfway through the song, some weirdish flute noises jump in too. A very busy beat, but it works. The lyrics as usual are top notch, and Ak has served notice 4 tracks in, at least to me, that he's a HUGE force to be reckoned with in the world of hip hop today.  
 
"Took us west, straight through the country  
To California, is the place to see  
So daddy put us inside, his Cadillac  
We hit the west coast, I thought we'd never come back  
Now, I'm walking on green grass  
3 years went past  
Palm trees, ocean breeze, where the summers last  
See, that's the life that I led  
It taught me home is just the place where you lay your head"  
 
5)5th Element  
 
Some nice drums kick things off, with a jazzy piano line, and some nice cuts in the background. Pretty sparse after that, as Ak goes to a more minimal beat here, provided by DJ Revolution, of "Wake Up Show" fame. Much like "No Suckas Allowed", this is basically another braggadacio track, with Akbar letting all know how dope he is. Some nice one liners in there, and as you'd expect from a Revolution production some ill cuts, fades, and scratches.  
 
6)Driftin Thru Space  
 
Time for a slow joint? Sounds like it. Some spacey sounds, and some sitar-like sounds accentuate this darker track, as Akbar switches up his lyrics yet again, this time focusing on the creation of the universe, and Allah's part in it. It's been done before countless times, but Ak manages to make it sound fresh.  
 
"The land was divided by oceans and great seas  
With rivers that ran like the Nile and Euphrates  
And fish swam, and birds flew through the sky  
And animals roamed the plain  
And they too multiplied  
As each and every living thing began to sing  
Giving praise to the king for bringing life and love and peace and harmony  
Was manifest  
Cuz the sun was set in the west"  
 
7)Akbar Speaks(Interlude)  
 
As you'd guess, Akbar speaking on a number of things, including health, and mental stuff. Interesting, but DEFINITELY skippable to the max. The liners say this was recorded from a radio show.  
 
8)Those Who Say  
 
This Kid Named Miles from critically acclaimed crew Breakestra produces this track, and to tell the truth, I'm a bit underwhelmed. There are some nice dirty sounding hard hitting drums here, and a decent enough bassline, but apart from a couple of horn samples interspersed, it's kind of boring, and well, average. The lyrics are above average here again though, and end up saving the track, as Ak once again goes the braggadacio route.  
 
"I'm not a gangsta  
I'm something closer to a monster  
Chi-Town, underground, Boogie Down, Bronxer  
Remember when I stomped ya?  
Live in concert?  
With the rugged raw, I came, saw, and conquered"  
 
9)Hot Ya Hot(M-Boogie Remix)  
 
Bliss. If there's one word to describe this track, that would be it. DJ Revolution provides some disgustingly good scratches, and M-Boogie laces this beat in his usual style(think DJ Premier). Ak once again comes correct on vocals, letting MC's know that the only way they'll succeed is if they drop the hot ish.  
 
"A shot from a 4-5 couldn't stop my vibe  
Phase me and daze me, nobody plays me  
They all shot at me, they gotta be crazy!  
They only grazed me, I had to be swayzee  
My momma always told me not to be lazy"  
 
10)Mothaship  
 
A crazy nice beat provided here by DJ Shame. A beautiful vocal sample that sounds almost mournful laces the background, with some basic drums serving as the backdrop. Very simple. The subject matter? A UFO sighting and some of Akbar's thoughts on extraterrestrial life.  
 
"I was smack dab in the middle of a wonderful dream  
When I was suddenly awoken by a frightening scream  
My first reaction was to grab my heat  
Pull down the covers, threw back the sheets  
Looked over to the window, sprang to my feet  
Outside, I saw mad people on the street  
In a state of shock  
Somebody called the cops, to quiet the riot  
But now they pulling out Glocks  
Shutting down blocks, busting shots at the sky  
But why even try to defy the most high?  
It was a divine sign, encounter of the third kind"  
 
11) Space Odyssey  
 
A dreamlike sample runs this track, and sounds pulled from something like Mary Poppins. An inventive use of the sample, no doubt. In addition to the sample, some beautiful keys lace the beat as well. The overall effect is dreamy, and sounds kind of trippy as well. Ak follows the lead of the beat here, dropping some vague Raekwon type stream of thought ish. I THINK he's doing the "aliens" thing again, but I'm not too sure. A dope track for the beat anyways.  
 
12)Live Long  
 
A weird weird weird beat supplied by Thes-One of People Under The Stairs here. It's very hard to describe, but I'll try. After a pretty normal beginning with some basic drums, this VERY weird loop enters play. I THINK it's a single key piano key, distorted, and then altered in a way that makes it sound like it's underwater. Regardless, it's dope. Lyricswise, once again Ak lives up to the beat provided, dropping some dope multisyllable type rhymes, and some surprisingly deep lyrics on life.  
 
"Look not to my external  
Cuz what's external will one day return to the inferno  
But what's internal is eternal  
What's in my journal does not concern you  
Learn to respect the intellect or my fire will burn you"  
 
13)Hold On  
 
Wow, what a beat provided by Parker Lee. Best on the album bar none. This sounds like something straight from the Wu-Tang, with some deep bass, a 4/4 drum pattern, and the cherry on top- a vocal loop of a woman singing "hold on". The end result is very eerie instrumental. Incredible. The lyrics are up to par as well, as Ak sends out a message to anyone who's in need of spiritual or emotional uplifting.  
 
"It's all the same in the hall of fame  
I just wanna be ready when He calls my name  
This material world is a ball and chain  
Live your life righteous or it's all in vein"  
 
14)Dedication  
 
As the title would suggest, Ak uses this track to remember all those that have passed on. A suitably sadder track comprised of a haunting acoustic guitar, and a slow bassline makes up the beat. Think sad thoughts, and you'd get the mood of this track. Ak is perfect lyrically here, reflecting on life and death. Incredible performance.  
 
"To all my peoples who ain't hear no more  
When we can't shed tears, we pour beer on the floor  
To remember the dead, I hand my head in sorrow  
And ask God for the strength to face tomorrow  
Cuz I know, when I leave this physical frame that  
Half of y'all probably won't remember my name  
Try to take me out, but you can never douse this flame  
I foresaw my funeral, only the real heads came"  
 
15) Hot Ya Hot  
 
The original to the remix found earlier on the LP, and once again M-Boogie is on the boards. Ill cuts again, and the difference between the cuts is based almost purely on a different drum scheme. It sounds close though. I prefer the original though, which sounds like it's flipped the sample used by Dilated Peoples on "Work the Angles". This is vintage M-Boogie right here. Ak as usual rips it.  
 
16)Those Who Say (DJ Revolution Remix)  
 
Rev serves up another dope slab of a beat, with a horn backbone, and some rattling noises. The chorus features a cool little electro-tinged piano loop. The overall effect is pretty downbeat, something I've never really heard from Rev as a producer. Tons better than the original though. Lyrics remain the same as the original.  
 
***  
 
A quick note- the last two tracks are exclusives to the CD, so all y 'all backwards cassette kids will miss out on them.  
 
So what has M-Boogie unearthed? Looks like a diamond. This is one of the top 3 albums of the year thus far, EASILY. Like his press clippings say, Ak looked to bring the art of emceeing back with this release, and I'd say he succeeded in stunning fashion.  
 
Cross your fingers that this gets it's shine, because it'd be a shame to see such talent get ignored.  
 
One of the best debuts I've ever heard. An easy 4.5, and very close to a perfect score.  
I walked into my favorite record store in Lincoln and heard something beautiful. The sound of good hip-hop that I never heard before. Not only was it good, but when something moves you on the first listen you know it will be a classic.  
 
What I was hearing was the 9th track on this album "San Francisco Knights" I had to own a copy of this song, so I asked for a 12". I was told there wasn't one, I had to buy the whole album if I wanted it. I am normally not a person who buys an album based on one song. I spend to much money on music to waste it on 12 or 15 tracks I don't listen to. But this was different, I had to take a chance. I broke down and spent $18 on the double LP.  
 
When I listened at home I was not let down...what a great album, with so many great beats. I could go through this album track by track for all 16 songs, but since you probably won't read that I'll just focus on the highlights, and maybe one or two lowlights.  
 
The People Under the Stairs are a different type of hip-hop group. Lyrically they are great, but aren't the type of group I would normally like. The subjects most covered on this album are drinking, smoking and partying. That's all fine, in fact I really like the fact that a lot of hip-hop is about just having fun, but I think it can be more than that and have a message or say something somewhat profound. This album doesn't have much of a positive message, which is my only problem with it.  
 
Despite that last fact, P.U.T.S. has actually put together a very creative album. Although, the songs are about partying, drinking and even doing a few illegal things, the group brings it down to the level of the average fan. A great example is the song "Mid-City Fiesta." As you listen, you can almost watch a movie of the duo hitting the town on a warm San Francisco Night or a summer night in L.A.  
 
Now, on to the best thing about this album, the beats. The groups DJ/MC Double K has put together some phenomenal beats, mixing a few classic hip-hop sounds with rare, super funky gems from his crates. The title track "The Next Step" is a perfect example of this. P.U.T.S. also manages to work some interesting voice samples into the album. On "San Francisco Knights" and the last track "Play it Again" the group mixes those phrases in with funky bass lines underneath.  
 
Another plus for this album, for all the underground hip-hop fans, is that it is one of those rare albums that can serve as a transition album for your friends who listen to pop hip-hop. A lot of people dismiss a lot of underground hip-hop as "weak" because it doesn't talk about shooting someone or treating your woman like garbage, or it is too political. This album is somewhere between the two extremes, and I have actually used this album to get some of my friends to start giving some records a chance even though they are not what everyone talks about and aren't on MTV and BET everyday.  
 
So, if you don't have it, go out and pick up a copy. It's worth it. Almost a year after I first picked it up "San Francisco Knights" is still one of my favorite hip-hop songs and each time I listen to the album I hear something new.  
Heads unfamiliar with the name Defari probably have not been paying much attention to the resurgence of West Coast Hip-Hop over the past few years. A deejay-turned-teacher-turned emcee, Defari Herut has gained respect in Hip-Hop the old-fashioned way - through skill, hard work, and determination. Though his noteworthy relationship with Tommy Boy Records ended shortly after his 1999 Focused Daily debut dropped, Defari continued to toil at his craft solo and with Tha Liks as a Likwit Crew member.  
 
With high-profile verses on Dr. Dre's Chronic 2001 and Dilated Peoples much-admired 2001 release, Expansion Team hipping a larger audience to Defari, the artist returned to the lab to craft his new album, Odds & Evens. An amazing mix of impressive lyricism, devastating beats, and exciting collaborations, this release should establish `O.G. Duane Johnson' as a major fixture in the West's rap scene from this moment on. Having survived a long and turbulent career, Defari has beaten the odds; now it's time to get even.  
 
Since it's an album from a member of the Likwit Crew, you know you can expect collaborations with Tha Liks, and Defari definitely delivers in this department on Odds & Evens. Featuring lyrics and production by E-Swift, "Inner City" is a great album opener. On this percussion-driven head-nodder, Defari and E rhyme extraordinarily well together, even when Swift spits sobriety-questioning lines like, "mind been corrupt since I was a young buck/ getting caught with my pants down beatin' it up." Tash brings his inexhaustible energy to "Xtra Thump," the perfect personality for taking Fredwreck's archetypal keyboard-crafted party anthem to a higher level of rowdiness. Likwit Crew member Phil Da Agony also manages to jump in a session for "Stay Bubblin,'" though he might have been better waiting for a different song to appear on. The production work on this is far too innocuous to properly complement the combined venom Agony and Defari lay down, killing the collabo's potential. With vocals that almost cry out hard drums and a grinding bassline, hopefully a remix will pop up as a bonus on a later release.  
 
However, the Likwit Crew are not the only ones to bless Odds & Evens with an appearance; Dilated Peoples makes their presence felt on one of the singles from this album, the remix of "Behold My Life." Babu outdoes himself here, producing a rich soul track laced heavily with old-school strings, and even whispers of Al Green drifting in from the shadows. Lyrically, Rakaa, Evidence, and Defari describe incidents in their lives that drove them to be successes today. Defari reminisces, "behold my life, a deejay turned emcee/ T La Rock `It's Yours' blew my m-i-n-d/ made me want to be the D-to-the-E/ crowned 310 king of Los Angeles city."  
 
Despite the impressive roster of guest artists, Defari is certainly capable of tearing down the mic without any collaborators and does so often. "Hooks" is yet another powerful banger that allows the emcee to show the appropriate lack of respect for fruity, catchy hook-addicted commercial rappers over Barbershop Kiz's dramatic, string-driven composition. He continues the hostilities with "Spell My Name," the lead single, co-produced by Evidence and Porse. This track is essentially an anthem for the Likwit emcee as he flexes raw braggadocio in his highly adaptable rhyme style, commanding you to spell his name in the chorus. Musically, Ev and Porse's work sounds a bit like a fresher rendition of some of Dr. Dre's best work; a defiant march with critical musical points fortified supplementary samples, including a strangely appealing blubbery trombone.  
 
Without a doubt, Odds & Evens is a nothing less than stellar release for Defari. The production is excellent, pulling some of the sharpest beats from respected names and relative unknowns (hell, none Alchemist's cuts even made it onto the final release, and you won't miss `em). Evidence proves to be just as solid an asset behind the boards for Defari as he is on the mic for DP; his remarkable production work here can only heighten the anticipation of Dilated's next effort. Lyrically, Defari knows exactly how to complement the beats with a versatile and dexterous flow, rocking rhymes that blend only the best of Cali Hip-Hop - aggressive without the trite gangsta posturing, fun-loving but with an undeniable sense of responsibility. Even if Defari has long since abandoned teaching as a profession, his new album Odds & Evens proves that there's still much to learn from this man. 
Who is Defari? Honestly, I don't know. I only picked this one up based on tips from Madtheory and paulyoungotti. Knowing that they are ÿber appreciators of quality hip-hop made the choice as easy as jumpin' in my ride.  
 
My sources tell me that Odds and Evens is Defari's second full-length release, the first one being Focused Daily. Based on the dopeness of the former, I really want to snipe the latter. It also seems as though he is intimately connected to Dre and his posse (no surprise there coming from LA).  
 
The first thing that hit me about Odds and Evens was the tightness of the production (mainly by E-Swift and Evidence of Dilated Peoples). I typically listen to music in my car. My stereo is relatively bangin' so it's a good place to test quality. Good production in hip-hop usually equals how tightly the bass and beats come out the speakers at high volume. Often, bass starts to bleed, escaping the parameters of the speaker cone, creating distortion and even blowing speakers. There's no bleeding hear. The best example of this is on the track Xtra Thump featuring Tash. The tune is basically heavy and bumpin' with lots of the lows, the same ones directly associated with that earthquake feeling you get when sitting at a red light next to one of those scary looking cars with the tinted windows, supa shiny rims, and wide-a** tires that seem way too small. Defari harkens back, reminding people that he can still kick-it with the best. The lows stay tight to the speakers, almost lifting the car with the volume cranked. The adrenaline rush I got reminded me of high school when I used to crank Def Leppard and Accept. Fun stuff!  
 
Another thing that struck me about Odds and Evens was the variety of the lyrical content. Defari comes across as a seasoned professional. He brings up all kinds of subjects. There is only one interlude and only one cut shorter than 2 minutes. The combination of Defari's mature west coast sound, tight lyrics, and smooth vocal style create a lethal dose of BANG.  
 
Although I like ALL of the tracks (pretty impressive these days), here are some of my standouts:  
 
Inner City has one of coolest hooks kinda like lowbump-bump-bump-bump-bump-bump-bumpbumpbumpbump-lowbump over a straightforward beat that hits with precision and purpose. Very west coast, very Dre inspired, very tough and nasty.  
 
Cold Pieces also has a hook that got stuck in my cranium long after the sound waves dissipated. The theme and feel is again high west coast. Tribal, eerie, otherworldly, and tough. The title refers to the wonderful women of LA. Clever, eh?  
 
Take The Weight Of My Hand is smooth and relaxed. Here Defari tells us a little about what makes him tick. The syncopated bass line on the low mixes with the shrill pinning of keys on the high to create a tension that is only broken by Defari's smooth flow. Lots of confidence and attitude in this one although not in-your-face.  
 
Xtra Thump you already know how this goes. Bang it loud!  
 
Los Angelinos is a lovely orchestrated joint accented by a simply complex key hook that sets a mellow mood. With no apparent urgency, Defari gives props to his hometown. It's a great track to kick to on a sunny day in August (the dog days), cruising the street with one hand one the wheel just checkin' things out.  
 
As I stated earlier, Odds and Evens doesn't contain a weak track. There are 10 others that I didn't mention as favorites but that's just because people have short attention spans these days (myself included). I could, would, should give props to Spell My Name (the video single), the beautifully edgy Hooks, regal title track Odds and Evens, or even the bass and horns of the finale Stay Bubblin', etc.  
 
Need I say more? Well, only that if you are a fan of west coast hip-hop, simply want a place to start your west coast experience, or have a pulse and a CD player, you should get down to your local music peddler and pick up Odds and Evens. Defari is at the top of his game. Also, further props to E-Swift and Evidence of Dilated Peoples for their quality handling of the production duties. Top shelf!  
Louis Logic has only been around for a short time. He has released two CD-ROM's, "Music to Drink By: A Collection of Loosies and Exclusives" and "Debacle in a Bottle: a not album", two excellent releases that basically compile the whole of his discography in two goes, mainly composed of 12" singles, bootlegs, unreleased tracks and exclusives. The title "Sin-A-Matic" is itself a play on "cinematic" - in short Louis Logic decided to present the various "sins" he likes to indulge in, in a various number of creative and cinematic ways. It's an intriguing idea on paper, but concepts are only worthy if you make them work...  
 
Ironically, the opening cuts of "Sin-A-Matic" are typical of many modern rap albums - something that's perhaps confusing at first. Louis Logic comes out swinging in his opening bars from the Sintro; "My CD is diseased, please be cautious |Cause each queasy chorus will leave ya nauseous | Each verse is equipped with evil forces | For teachin' your kids how to be remorseless". It's a short freestyle introducing his album - a typical rap album feature - and it gives you a good idea of his skill as an emcee (check the multi's). Louis then couples his braggadocio with blunt thoughts on the state of the rap game in the magnificent "Street Smarts": "Whatcha think cause ya neck and ya wrist go bling | That ya sh!t don't stink? Fa**ot asses doin' the Sisqo thing in a thong | Y'all ain't never had a inkling of thinkin' of bringin' it on | Take my advice shorty | Before I make your life story the sad sh*t R&B bit*hes sing in a song". This is one of the angriest songs on the album but most importantly it demonstrates his ridiculous flow and hard-hitting wordplay, coupled with a distinctive voice. Add the standout guest collaboration with Demigodz member Celph Titled on the fake emcee dismantling "Diablos" and the opening of the album is lyrically potent, if not all too disimilar from many others.  
 
But in an industry crammed full of imitation after imitation, Louis Logic does stand out. The conceptual inventiveness that is found throughout "Sin-A-Matic" is unique. Take "Freak Show", an indication of the rapper's eccentric side, as he adjusts his vocal tone to a highly odd accent and vividly describes all kinds of society's weirdos, over a minimalist, bouncy fairground-inspired beat. His twisted, dark humour is literally on show here: he reminds me of Brotha Lynch Hung or the pre 2002 Eminem. "Fair Weather Fan" is one of my favourite songs, and it finds Louis presenting both the views of several fans and critics about his music and his own response to these resulting criticisms, over Memo's wonderfully dark, computer-inspired beat. The best and most controversial song is undoubtedly "The Ugly Truth". Over another solemn, eerie beat this time crafted by The Record Collecter, Louis satirises the views of racist America by describing several minority races through mockery of standard racial stereotypes and rhetoric. You have to hear it to see how well done it is but it demonstrates to the letter how creative Louis Logic is; I have never heard a song quite like this one. He's got one hell of an imagination; his storytelling is on a par with Nas or Ice Cube, and the worlds he constructs are fantastical and weird.  
 
It follows that one of the main features of Louis Logic's philosophy towards life is that he doesn't really take too much seriously; you won't see much political or social commentary instead Louis uses the creative side of his brain. "Coochie Coup" is an enjoyable song about one of his main passions, sex. Spitting lines like "You see as much as I love pu**y | you can't feed it to me because I don't eat anything that bleeds for a week and don't die" and sporting ODB lines for the hook it's a funny way at looking at typical subject matter. And yes, even when he switches up the subject matter, he avoids any laziness and keeps the complexity of his rhymes. "Dos Factuom" is just a beautiful song, as Louis describes a wild night out when heavily inebriated - alcohol is his other main passion. What's best about this song, however, is the magnificent production by J.J. Brown - we're talking about lilting/JJ|VBG guitars and a dreamy horn sample creating a really surreal atmosphere.  
 
And that brings me nicely onto J.J Brown's considerable talent as a beatmaker; next to Madlib, Stoupe and R2JD this guy has to be one of the best underground producers around. Not one song on this album is below par beatswise, and he provides 90% of them. "Postal" has a wonderful switching beat; starting off with cheeky trumpets and a cavernous bassline then changing to a bouncy piano-blessed instrumental, which is great backing to a hilariously inventive story of two halves from Louis Logic about a fed-up and bored office worker who eventually goes "postal" - a sly satire of a plague of modern American society. The best of the best, though, is the wonderful lead single "Idiot Gear". Over one of the catchiest choruses and keyboard loops I've heard for a long time - it's like a distant cousin of Gang Starr's "Mass Appeal" (yeah, THAT good) - Louis kicks fast flowing and charismatic lyrics about why you might not want to find out about an ex-girlfriend's exploits with her past boyfriends. It's an unashamedly male song, and most blokes I'm sure will be able to relate to it. Needless to say, the great production is simply only a continuation of J.J. Brown's work on the rest of the album.  
 
"Sin-A-Matic" surprised me. I knew it was going to be good, but I didn't realise quite how good. Louis Logic conforms to no stereotypes or trends; he does his own thing; while his twisted humour might offend some it simply confirms to me that he is something different from much of the brainless crap that has invaded mainstream rap. There's not a weak track, this is top three of 2003 material, check it out - especially if you are a big Underground Hip Hop fan.  
Many people who listen to hip-hop, even underground hip-hop, have absolutely no clue who the Demigodz are. The Demigodz have been hailed as the new comical version of the Wu-Tang Clan. The Demigodz are a huge group, embedded deep within the underground, specifically the east coast underground scene. The extremely talented organization consists of a whopping 13 members, which includes 10 emcees and 13 producers / djs. Its pretty interesting that they can compose an entire label with just these emcees. Each emcee has his own personality and style, but they honestly are all ill emcees who have competed and won a variety of battle competitions. The Demigodz are: the humorous Apathy, who has been hailed as the new Eminem, Celph Titled, Open Mic, Louis Logic, complex intelligent emcee Esoteric, Rise, El-Fudge, Spin 4th, One-Two, and Motive. The DJs are 7L, Chum the Skrilla Guerilla, and Franky Needles. These 13 individuals make up the Demigodz. In 2002, they released an underground EP entitled The Godz Must Be Crazy, which is just a taste of what is in store from these emcees.  
 
 
Track List & Rating  
 
1. Intro (NOT RATED)  
2. Science of the Bumrush (5 Stars)  
3. Captivate Deactivate (5 Stars)  
4. The Demigodz (5 Stars)  
5. Off the Chrome (4 1/2 Stars)  
6. Don't you even go there (5 Stars)  
7. The Godz Must be Crazy (5 Stars)  
 
 
"Intro" is HILARIOUS from the start and puts a smile to my face. First of all, it is a sheer copy of the intro to Dr. Dre's The Chronic, even the very same G-Funk beat to start it. Apathy does his best Snoop Dogg impression, introducing the Demigodz in the same way that Dr. Dre's album began, with pure trash talk. Apathy claims that now its beyond battling, now they go to shows and fight people, in which he is claiming of the incident in New York a few months before where the Celph Titled went on stage during underground rapper Cage's performance, and got into a fist-fight with him because he refused to battle, which is all apart of the beef between the Eastern Conference All-Stars and the Demigodz... LONG STORY.. but now lets get to the album...  
 
"Science of the Bumrush" kicks off the album. Apathy starts the song by hitting us with tight humorous storytelling lyricism similar to the way Eminem used to do, with very tight battle raps and stories. Its amazing how well these guys can write lyrics, and its shown on this track. Its funny, well-written, and very lyrical, with multi-syllable flows and multi-bar rhyme schemes. These guys are on their way to being legends if they keep this up. The beat is also tight, featuring a hard assortment of trumpets and horns, and some low bass.  
 
The Demigodz continue with "Captivate Deactivate". Esoteric, Celph Titled, Open Mic, and Apathy give us another underground classic. All of these emcees drop awesome verses over some melancholy production, with synthesized drums, and fast violin. Celph lays a clever diss to Eve, calling her a crack-wh*re. Apathy lays down a tight verse against commercial rap, giving us some VERY VERY Clever rhymes: "And y'all ain't basement, y'all are locked in the cellar / Ain't sayin sh*t like a Helen Keller acapella / And we originated "Root Beers" for ya frigid air / So emcees had to get day-jobs with Medicare" Awesome...  
 
Apathy and Celph Titled trade verses on "The Demigodz", showcasing one of the most memorable punchlines ever: "Rappers are gettin wrecked due to lack of respect / Cuz y'all couldn't get signed if you was the back of a check". I had to rewind that to hear it... so clever. Both emcees drop humorous battle raps similar to how Eminem would do. The chorus is funny and memorable, dissing other emcees, and laying down some disses towards Eastern Conference All-Stars. Celph Titled comes off with some funny-a** sh*t on this track: I am the feature presentation, your rhymes are just a segment / A b*tch could just look at me, and get herself pregnant / I make bustin a gat look good cuz I hold it well / In second grade I brought a live grenade to class for show-and-tell"  
 
Louis Logic, Apathy, and Celph Titled come together on "Off the Chrome". Same idea as before, hilarious battle rhymes, aimed at the Eastern Conference All-Stars. In between the verses, we get an interlude about a crazed fan, as they kick tight freestyles, with the beat changing each time. The first is more of a laid-back style, and the second has some slamming bass, and the third sounds a little bit like both. This is a nice concept track, driven by amazing punchlines. Celph Titled sounds kinda disturbed on here by the way, so everybody knows. The same three emcees return on the head-bobbing "Dont you even go there". The track features humorous punchlines over some funky productions.  
 
The Godz Must be Crazy EP ends with the title track where every member of the Demigodz appears to drop verses. No catchy choruses, no special hooks, just pure lyricism. During the track, the beat is altered every once and a while a tiny bit, to make it sound fresh and not repetitive, which is a great idea by the Demigodz. These are some amazing, punchline driven battle raps which explains why these guys are so good as battling. In my personal opinion, Louis Logic, Apathy, Motive, and Rise drop the illest rhymes... check out this sample from Louis' verse:  
 
I'm a Demigod, what'd you expect? From a man  
who met Mother Nature, looked under her dress and wasn't impressed  
The same stupid son of a b*tch who doesn't respect  
The Angel of Death's request when he comes to collect  
Run in and check, my cassette - it's a slight chance  
you might see, demons escapin from in the deck, and now that I...  
"Sweet Jesus, please see us through this  
I ain't tryna die over a beef with Louis!"  
But when I increase the rudeness of my evil music  
It leaves the stupid, people skewered and leaks ya fluids  
into the streets and sewers, if by chance God sees me do it  
Should shoot a big hole down to Hell and lead me to it  
 
WOW!  
 
The Demigodz win the award for Best New Hip-Hop Group with this EP. The Godz Must be Crazy EP is one of those albums that should be owned by collectors and hard underground hip-hop heads. Its fresh, extremely well produced, and hilarious. You will be rewinding the album more than once to hear those hilarious punchlines that they drop. When it comes to subject matter, they dont deviate from battle raps, which is sad, but good since its what they do best and of course, this is just the EP, the introduction of the Demigodz. This is more than deserving of 5 stars, but im going to give it 4 because of its shortness. But i highly reccomend buying this if youre in the mood to laugh and got some extra money lying around, cause they are right, "The Gods MUST be crazy..."  
Cam has been around for a little while now, and has come from Sports, Drugs, and Entertainment to Confessions, now to his greatest solo album so far, COME HOME WITH ME. Cam' Ron and the Diplomats being the new act on the juggernaut record company Roc-A-Fella records, has been the biggest signing in the east since the Yankees signed Jeter. This new Cam' Ron shocks the world, and no person in their right mind would have thought it to be a hit. Cam' Ron has come with more lyrics on this album, and he gets very deep on a couple songs. One thing that sets Cam apart is his hooks and chorus'. He has three hit singles, which had every club on the western hemisphere bobbing their heads. This is an album that won't disappoint if you were to purchase. Cam `Ron makes you respect his different style because he is filling a void in the industry. I mean he is doing it his way, which only takes one word to explain, PINK. Most people don't respect his uniqueness in the industry and his style of rapping and doing things. This is a album that is out of the norm, and it leaves you with your mouth open, Cam is doing it big. There are only a couple negatives, the beats get boring towards the end of the CD, and he gets repetitive, but other than that it is a good CD.  
 
Here Are A Few Reviews of Songs:  
1) INTRO- Even the intro is good. He starts off with legendary DJ Kay Slay, and then goes into ripping the beat apart, from the intro you can tell he is coming with something hot on this CD.  
Song Rating: 4 Microphones  
 
2) LOSING WEIGHT PART 2- Cam and the rest of the diplomats tears up this song, they discuss how they lose weight, as in drug weight, the lyrics are the hot on the track, and it is what I believe to be the grimiest beat on the album, they kept the lyrics Grimy too.  
Song Rating: 4 Microphones  
 
3) OH BOY- well this song sort of speaks for itself. Everybody knows this street anthem, and Cam even made a actual cologne named "Oh Boy." Oh boy is a song where the hook actually made the song. There has even been rumors that they made the song in 20 minutes because they freesyled it. Well, you can tell, the lyrics aren't to strong, and if more time would have been put in they could have done 10 times better. But it is still a great single, now everybody is saying "oh boy," and that is the goal of a single.  
Song Rating: 3 Microphones  
 
4) LIVE MY LIFE (LEAVE ME ALONE)- This is the most gansta beat of all time coming from one of the greatest, 2pac, from his "Ambition as a Rider" hit. It very dangerous to sample one of the best beats of all time, Cam did the beat some justice though, he ripped it.  
Song Rating: 4 1/2 Microphones  
 
5) DAYDREAMING- This is an awful thug love song. He comes nowhere close to Jigga's "Song Cry." It has entirely too much singing and only a couple short verses, it definitely has no playtime in my player.  
Song Rating: 1 1/2 Microphones  
 
6) COME HOME WITH ME- This is a song where Cam shows off some of the skills of his Dip Set peep's. It is not a song that will knock you off your feet, but the lyrics wasn't all that bad because they all had a couple of good punch lines, so it is not all that bad, but the beat is annoying.  
Song Rating: 3 Microphones  
 
7) WELCOME TO NEW YORK CITY- Now Cam is getting the meat of the album, JAY-Z, good move by Cam to get label mate and legendary rapper Jay-Z on the track. They are discussing their stomping grounds and I love it. It is definitely the best song on the album, and what I think should have been the first single, but Cam came hard with the lyrics, and Jay-z always does so in my estimation, this is a hit.  
Song Rating: 5 Microphones  
 
8) HEY MA- We all know this as the second single off the album, but it is not that bad. The beat is crazy and it fits perfectly with the mood of the song as a whole. The video is even better with one-legged Frankie with Gucci crutches throws a crutch away and starts c-walking, very creative and humorous. The song has a good hook but the lyrics were a little too basic and nursery rymish.  
Song Rating: 3 1/2 Microphones  
 
9) ON FIRE TONIGHT- Well, now we see a little bit of the Dip Set's hype man, Freaky Zekey in Action, the skit before the song where he talks about a female "burning" him (for you all who don't know what burning is, it is women having a STD, and a man having intercourse with her without a condom on) and he makes it funny to get burnt. Cam goes in and talks about that touchy situation. It's Funny!  
Song Rating: 4 Microphones  
 
10) STOP CALLING- This a song that I believe to be even funnier. This is a song that starts off with a man callin Cam to ask him di he f*** his girl, and Cam plays with him and asks him who's your girl, then Cam starts rapping on the situation and all that he and his crew did to her, for example:  
Well, I'ma tell you straight up, homeboy cause it's a cold world  
Your wife, I call her "Oh girl" her head makes my toes curl  
And she awfully thick, help me get off these bricks  
Coffee kick, but after I bust, I be like "Get the f**k off me b***h"  
If she front, bruise her in the ribs  
But you hugged her, you loved her, moved her in the crib  
Hit by cupid, stupid, why'd you do it? Why be bother?  
Why you holla? Three babies, three baby fathers  
Get wise kid, open your eyelids, cause that last abortion?  
That was my kid, that's right, but that I ain't followin'  
If she get pregnant again, it'd be from swallowin'  
But once in a while I dive in it, that car you bought?  
I be drivin' it, head while I'm drivin it  
Said you like to lay up dog, and play footies  
But she need a ni**a with timbs, gats and straight hoodies  
That's only the first verse of the song. I believe that this is the best song lyrically on the album because of the crazy play with words.  
Song Rating:5 Microphones  
 
Reasons to buy:  
1. Originality  
2. Personality of Cam  
There are certain things that just can't be touched. One of those things just happens to be Da Brat's current album "Unrestricted." On this album she proves to be more talented and in touch with who she really is compared to "Anutha Tantrum" and "Funkdafied." Her singles have become more than just songs that one hears on the radio, but instruments that we wake up and sing, get crunk, or relate our everday lives to. It may not be suitable for those 14 years and under due to the explicit content, but with anthems such as "That's What I'm Lookin For," Da Brat is bound for success.  
Da Brat does have her PG-rated comments leaving her to restrict some of her audiences. With titles such as "Whatchu Like," F**k You," and "All My B*tches," it isn't surprising that some parents are forbidding their children from listening her songs in their homes. The fact that she has this PG-rated edge shows that she has matured since Funkdafied, thus, leaving her to gain a new audience (the more mature) to almost replace the younger.  
Her album is pure evidence that female artists/rappers have their work cut out for them. Da Brat is, somewhat of, a genius with her beats and lyrics (that everyone is "biting") She is proving to be more competition than anyone ever perceived. Jermaine Dupri (CEO of SoSoDef Productions)definitely saw talent in her soul when he picked her up out of Chi-Town. Hopefully, Da Brat will continue on her journey of what she perceives as success, proving to J.D., her family, and her world of fans that she definitely is unrestricted.  
Da Brat~one of the most original rap and R&B stars out there. She has the funky sass of a rap star, and the elegant class of a woman. Her new cd attracted me from the song "That's What I'm Looking For." It had an amazing beat, cool words, and the music video showed many sides of Da Brat. Her growing up from the young disobedient thug girl, to now a woman, is definitely showed throughout her album. With appearances by Tyrese, JD & Lil John, Ja Rule..and many other great performers, her cd is hard to not listen to repeatedly. Her flows and technique is far different from her other albums. She has matured, as well as her music and lyrical talent. She still holds it down as one of the strongest and outspoken ladies of the hip-hop world today. If CDs full of energy is "what you're looking for", I would recommend artists such as Dr. Dre, Eminem, Ja Rule, and The Cash Money Crew, and Eve. If you liked her before, you'll like her now. So go out and by the CD, you won't regret it.  
